 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Clarifying Authority over Nicotine Act of 2021  .
 2.  FDA authority over products containing nicotine  (a)  Tobacco product definition Section 201(rr)(1) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ( 21 U.S.C. 321(rr)(1) ) is amended— (1) by inserting  , or containing nicotine from any source,  after  from tobacco ; and (2) by adding at the end the following:  An article that is a food as defined in paragraph (f) shall not be considered a tobacco product if it contains not more than trace amounts of nicotine and such nicotine is naturally occurring. . (b)  Applicability Section 901(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ( 21 U.S.C. 387a(b) ) is amended to reads follows: (b)  Applicability  (1)  In general  This chapter shall apply to all cigarettes, cigarette tobacco, roll-your-own tobacco, and smokeless tobacco and to any other tobacco products that the Secretary by regulation deems to be subject to this chapter.  (2)  Tobacco products containing nicotine not made or derived from tobacco  Beginning 30 days after the date of enactment of the Clarifying Authority over Nicotine Act of 2021, this chapter shall apply to any tobacco product containing nicotine not made or derived from tobacco.  .  (c)  Applicability of existing requirements for tobacco products Beginning on the date specified in section 901(b) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended by subsection (b), with respect to any regulation promulgated or related guidance documents issued, in whole or in part, under this Act before such date, the term  tobacco product  shall have the meaning of, and shall be deemed amended to reflect the meaning of, such term as defined in section 201(rr) of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act, as amended by subsection (a). Products that are  tobacco products  under such section 201(rr) shall be subject to the requirements of existing regulations for tobacco products. The Secretary shall publish a notice in the Federal Register to update the Code of Federal Regulations to reflect such deemed amendment to existing regulations and guidance documents.
