 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Taiwan Preclearance Act .
 2.  Findings  Congress makes the following findings:  (1)  U.S. Customs and Border Protection Preclearance is the strategic stationing of CBP personnel at designated foreign locations to inspect travelers prior to boarding United States-bound flights, trains, ships, and ferries. With preclearance, travelers bypass Customs and Border Protection and Transportation Security Administration inspections upon United States arrival and proceed directly to their connecting flight or destination.  (2)  The preclearance program enhances the security of all travelers while facilitating efficient trade and travel. The program increases collaboration and coordination between the United States and host governments through daily interaction with local law enforcement partners and other government authorities  (3)  More than 600 U.S. Customs and Border Protection officers and specialists are stationed in Aruba, The Bahamas, Bermuda, Canada, Ireland, and The United Arab Emirates.  (4)  A preclearance program at Taiwan’s Taoyuan International Airport (TPE) would signal Taiwan’s importance as a strategic security partner to the United States and compliance with international aviation rules.  (5)  In 2012, the United States announced Taiwan’s designation for participation in the Visa Waiver Program, which allows for Taiwanese passport holders to enter and remain in the United States for up to 90 days without obtaining a United States visa.   (6)  In 2017, Taiwan became the third location in East Asia and the 12th nation worldwide to be eligible for the Global Entry program, which allows for expedited immigration and customs clearance and pre-approval.  
 3.  Sense of Congress  It is the sense of Congress that—  (1)  Taiwan is a steadfast partner of the United States in the common pursuit of a free and open Indo-Pacific region; and  (2)  the United States should prioritize the establishment of preclearance facilities and other security programs with allies and partners in the Indo-Pacific region, including Taiwan. 
 4.  Defined term The term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (1) the  Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate ; (2) the  Committee on Finance of the Senate ; (3) the  Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate ; (4) the  Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives ; and (5) the  Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives . 
 5.  Report  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Commerce, shall submit a report to the appropriate congressional committees that—  (1)  analyzes the feasibility and advisability for the establishment of a preclearance facility in Taiwan;  (2)  describes the plan for the establishment of a preclearance facility in Taiwan or in other countries in the Indo-Pacific region;  (3)  assesses the impacts that preclearance operations in Taiwan will have on—  (A)  the security partnership between the United States and Taiwan;  (B)  trade between the United States and Taiwan, including the impact on established supply chains;  (C)  the tourism industry in the United States, including the potential impact on revenue and tourist-related commerce;  (D)  United States and foreign passengers traveling to the United States for business-related activities;  (E)  cost savings and potential market access by expanding operations into the Indo-Pacific region;  (F)  opportunities for government-to-government collaboration available in Taiwan after preclearance operations are established; and  (G)  U.S. Customs and Border Patrol international and domestic port of entry staffing; and  (4)  includes country-specific information on the anticipated homeland security benefits and the security vulnerabilities associated with conducting preclearance operations in Taiwan. 
