 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  LGBTQ Essential Data Act .
 2.  Improving data collection on the sexual orientation and gender identity of deceased individuals through the National Violent Death Reporting System  (a)  Collection of sexual orientation and gender identity data  (1)  In general  Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention shall take measures to improve the incidence of the collection of information on the sexual orientation and gender identity of deceased individuals through the National Violent Death Reporting System or any successor programs.  (2)  Confidentiality  Any information collected relating to the sexual orientation or gender identity of a decedent shall be maintained in accordance with the confidentiality and privacy standards and policies for the protection of individuals applicable to all other data collected for purposes of the National Violent Death Reporting System.  (b)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Gender identity The term  gender identity  means an individual’s sense of being male, female, transgender, or another gender, as distinct from the individual’s sex assigned at birth. (2)  Sexual orientation The term  sexual orientation  means how a person identifies in terms of their emotional, romantic, or sexual attractions, and includes identification as straight, heterosexual, gay, lesbian, or bisexual, among other terms. (c)  Authorization  There is authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2022 to carry out this section. 
 3.  Sense of Congress  It is the sense of the Congress that—  (1)  the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention has made significant efforts to encourage States and other jurisdictions to collect data on sexual orientation and gender identity through the National Violent Death Reporting System; and  (2)  jurisdictions that participate in the collection of such data through the National Violent Death Reporting System should be commended for their participation. 
