 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Brycen Gray and Ben Price COVID–19 Neurological Impact Act .
 2.  Findings  Congress makes the following findings:  (1)  Historical epidemiological perspectives suggest an association between exposure to general respiratory viruses and subsequent neurological and psychiatric illnesses.  (2)  Early research suggests that one in three patients diagnosed with a COVID–19 infection experiences a neurological or psychiatric illness within six months of such diagnosis.  (3)  Research is urgently needed to better understand why neurological and psychiatric illnesses occur in patients following a COVID–19 infection, so that treatments and therapeutic strategies can be developed.  (4)  The National Science Foundation and the National Institutes of Health have a deep history of supporting collaborative research that spans the biological sciences and paves the way for health-related advancements. 
 3.  National Science Foundation research  The Director of the National Science Foundation, in consultation with the Director of the National Institutes of Health and the Director of the National Institute of Mental Health, is authorized to award grants on a competitive basis to support multidisciplinary research on neurological and psychiatric illnesses associated with COVID–19 infection, including with respect to children and adolescents. Such research may include research into any of the following:  (1)  The incidence of neurological and psychiatric illness associated with COVID–19 infection.  (2)  Brain function following a COVID–19 infection and the potential relevance of such infection to neurological and psychiatric illnesses.  (3)  The relevance of psychological and psychosocial factors associated with the COVID–19 pandemic to neurological and psychiatric illnesses, including an identification and evaluation of such factors.  (4)  Other science with potential relevance to the causes, diagnosis, prognosis, and treatment of neurological and psychiatric illnesses associated with COVID–19 infection. 
 4.  COVID–19 mental health interagency working group  (a)  Establishment  The Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy, in consultation with the National Science and Technology Council, shall establish an interagency working group—  (1)  to coordinate Federal programs and activities with roles in addressing—  (A)  neurological and psychiatric illnesses associated with COVID–19 infection; and  (B)  psychological and psychosocial factors associated with the COVID–19 pandemic that may be relevant to such illnesses;  (2)  to coordinate Federal research and data collection, including with respect to children and adolescents—  (A)  to identify neurological and psychiatric illnesses associated with COVID–19 infection; and  (B)  to improve understanding of psychological and psychosocial factors associated with the COVID–19 pandemic that may be relevant to such illnesses; and  (3)  to coordinate engagement with researchers and stakeholders from universities, industry, public health organizations, health care providers, State and local governments, elementary and secondary educational organizations, and non-profit organizations to ensure that research, information, and best practices relating to neurological and psychiatric illnesses associated with COVID–19 infection are shared among such entities.  (b)  Co-Chairs  The interagency working group shall be co-chaired by—  (1)  the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy; and  (2)  a member of the interagency working group selected by the Director of the Office of Science and Technology Policy.  (c)  Termination  The interagency working group shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
