 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Affordable Child Care for Economic Strategies and Success Act  or the  ACCESS Act .
 2.  Grants for public works and economic development  (a)  In general Section 201 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 ( 42 U.S.C. 3141 ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (a)—  (A) in paragraph (1), by striking  and  after the semicolon at the end; (B) in paragraph (2), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and (C)  by adding at the end the following:  (3)  planning, developing, or creating a project or facility that will directly or indirectly increase the accessibility of child care.   ; and   (2)  in subsection (b)(1)—  (A) in subparagraph (B), by striking  or  at the end; (B) in subparagraph (C), by adding  or  after the semicolon at the end; and (C)  by adding at the end the following:  (D)  increase the accessibility of child care;  .   (b)  Regulations  (1)  In general Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall issue such regulations as are necessary to establish criteria for whether, for purposes of section 201 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 ( 42 U.S.C. 3141 ), a project directly or indirectly increases the accessibility of child care.  (2)  Considerations  The criteria referred to in paragraph (1) shall take into consideration the following:  (A)  The availability, validity, and accessibility of timely data.  (B)  The extent to which a project contributes to the financial security of a family.  (C)  The extent to which a project addresses child care needs in areas recognized as experiencing a child care shortage. 
 3.  Grants for planning and grants for administrative expenses Section 203(b) of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 ( 42 U.S.C. 3143(b) ) is amended by striking paragraph (4) and inserting the following:  (4)  formulating and implementing an economic development program that includes systematic efforts—  (A)  to reduce unemployment and increase incomes; or  (B)  to increase the accessibility of child care.  . 
 4.  Grants for training, research, and technical assistance Section 207(a)(2) of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 ( 42 U.S.C. 3147(a)(2) ) is amended— (1) in subparagraph (H), by striking  and  after the semicolon at the end; (2)  by redesignating subparagraph (I) as subparagraph (J); and  (3)  by inserting after subparagraph (H) the following:  (I)  the planning, development, or creation of a project or facility that will directly or indirectly increase the accessibility of child care; and  . 
 5.  Comprehensive economic development strategies  (a)  In general Section 302(a)(3)(A) of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 ( 42 U.S.C. 3162(a)(3)(A) ) is amended by inserting  (including by directly or indirectly increasing the accessibility of child care)  after  promotes economic development and opportunity . (b)  Guidance In carrying out the amendment made by subsection (a), the Secretary of Commerce, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall issue guidance on how to include the accessibility of child care in a comprehensive economic development strategy developed under section 302 of the Public Works and Economic Development Act of 1965 ( 42 U.S.C. 3162 ).
