 1.  Regulation of family offices  (a)  Family office size limitation Section 202(a) of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 ( 15 U.S.C. 80b–2(a) ) is amended— (1) in paragraph (11), by striking  ;; (G) any family office, as defined by rule, regulation, or order of the Commission, in accordance with the purposes of this title  and inserting  ; (G) any covered family office ; (2)  by redesignating the second paragraph (29) as paragraph (31); and  (3)  by adding at the end the following:   (32)  Covered family office  (A)  In general The term  covered family office  means a family office with less than $750,000,000 in assets under management. (B)  Rulemaking The Commission shall further define the term  covered family office , by rule, in accordance with the purposes of this title. In issuing such rule, the Commission— (i) shall exclude any person who is subject to a final order described in section 15(b)(4)(H) of the Securities Exchange Act of 1934 ( 15 U.S.C. 78o(b)(4)(H) ); and (ii)  may include a family office with fewer assets under management than the threshold described under subparagraph (A), if the Commission, by rule, determines the family office is highly leveraged or engaged in high-risk activities that the Commission determines warrants inclusion, as appropriate to protect investors.   .  (b)  Exemption of and reporting by covered family offices Section 203 of the Investment Advisers Act of 1940 ( 15 U.S.C. 80b–3 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (o)  Exemption of and reporting by covered family offices  (1)  In general  The Commission may provide an exemption from the registration requirements under this section to any covered family office.  (2)  Reporting  The Commission shall require investment advisers exempted by reason of this subsection to maintain such records and provide to the Commission such annual or other reports as the Commission determines necessary or appropriate in the public interest or for the protection of investors.   .  (c)  Removal of grandfather provision Section 409 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( 15 U.S.C. 80b–2  note) is amended— (1)  in subsection (b)—  (A) in paragraph (1), by adding  and  at the end; (B) in paragraph (2), by striking  ; and  and inserting a period; and (C)  by striking paragraph (3); and  (2)  by striking subsection (c). 
