 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Wireless Broadband Competition and Efficient Deployment Act .
 2.  Application of NEPA and NHPA to collocation of certain personal wireless service facilities  (a)  NEPA exemption A covered project shall not be subject to the requirements of section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ( 42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C) ). (b)  National Historic Preservation Act exemption  A covered project shall not be considered an undertaking under section 300320 of title 54, United States Code.  (c)  Definitions  In this section:   (1)  Commission The term  Commission  means the Federal Communications Commission.  (2)  Covered project The term  covered project  means a project— (A)  for—  (i)  the mounting or installation of an eligible personal wireless service facility with another eligible personal wireless service facility that exists at the time at which a complete request for authorization of such mounting or installation is filed with a State or local government or instrumentality thereof; or  (ii)  the modification of an eligible personal wireless service facility; and  (B)  for which a permit, license, or approval from the Commission is required or that is otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.  (3)  Eligible personal wireless service facility The term  eligible personal wireless service facility  means any antenna, apparatus, or transmitting device, and any equipment, switches, wiring, cabling, power sources, shelters, or cabinets, for the provision of a personal wireless service. (4)  Personal wireless services The term  personal wireless services — (A) has the meaning given such term in section 332(c)(7)(C) of the Communications Act of 1934 ( 47 U.S.C. 332(c)(7)(C) ); and (B) also includes commercial mobile data service (as defined in section 6001 of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 ( 47 U.S.C. 1401 )). (5)  State The term  State  means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the territories and possessions of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe.
