 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Education Against Hate Crimes Act of 2021 .
 2.  Grants for hate crime prevention and prejudice reduction education  (a)  Grants authorized  Beginning not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to assist such entities in conducting hate crime prevention and prejudice reduction education for secondary school students and students in middle grades.  (b)  Curriculum requirements  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the Act, the Secretary of Education, in consultation with Secretary of Homeland Security and the Attorney General, shall develop requirements for the curriculum of the hate crime prevention and prejudice reduction education conducted with a grant under this section.  (c)  Grant amount  The amount of a grant awarded under this section shall not exceed $1,500,000 for any fiscal year.  (d)  Applications  (1)  In general  To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.  (2)  Priority  In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that will provide hate crime prevention and prejudice reduction education in geographic areas where there is disproportionate hate crime activity relative to the total population of the area. The Secretary may consult with the Attorney General to identify eligible entities that meet the requirements for priority consideration under this paragraph.  (e)  Reporting requirements  On an annual basis in each year for which an eligible entity receives a grant under this section, the entity shall submit to the Secretary a report that includes—  (1)  a description of how the grant was used;  (2)  the number of secondary school students who enrolled in and completed a program of hate crime prevention and prejudice reduction education;  (3)  the number of teachers who provided instruction to students in hate crime prevention and prejudice reduction education; and  (4)  a description of the strategies and best practices employed to achieve the objectives under the grant.   (f)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Hate crime and prejudice reduction education The term  hate crime and prejudice reduction education  means culturally relevant education (available in multiple languages, consistent with census data and demographics of the area which the education will be provided) to prevent, address, deter, and dissuade crimes against persons or an individual’s property due to the actual or perceived race, color, religion, national origin, ethnicity, gender, gender identity, disability, age, or sexual orientation of any person. (2)  Eligibile entity The term  eligible entity  means a State, a local educational agency, or a nonprofit organization. (3)  ESEA terms The terms  local educational agency ,  middle grades ,  secondary school , and  Secretary  have the meanings given those terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 ). (4)  State The term  State  means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, Guam, and the United States Virgin Islands. (g)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for fiscal years 2022 through 2032. 
