 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Power Line Resiliency Act .
 2.  Power line improvement grant program  (a)  Establishment  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary of Energy shall establish a program to provide grants to electric utilities to carry out eligible activities.  (b)  Grants  (1)  Application  To apply for a grant provided under this section, an electric utility shall submit to the Secretary of Energy an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary of Energy may require.  (2)  Selection  The Secretary of Energy shall provide grants under this section—  (A)  on a competitive basis; and  (B)  to geographically diverse electric utilities.  (3)  Priority  The Secretary of Energy shall prioritize providing a grant under this section to any electric utility that sells electricity in an area that has a history of extreme weather events.  (c)  Sunset  The program established under subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date of enactment of this section.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Electric utility The term  electric utility  has the meaning given such term in section 3(22) of the Federal Power Act ( 16 U.S.C. 796(22) ). (2)  Eligible activity  (A)  In general The term  eligible activity  means an activity that— (i)  is designed to improve the performance or efficiency of a power line;   (ii)  makes a power line more resilient to an extreme weather event; or  (iii)  otherwise ensures that an end-user has access to electricity during an extreme weather event.  (B)  Includes The term  eligible activity  includes— (i)  burying a power line;  (ii)  hardening a power line; and  (iii)  if burying a power line is not feasible, providing a generator to a household that is located in a remote area.  (3)  Extreme weather event The term  extreme weather event  means an historically rare or severe natural disaster, including a heat wave, drought, flood, tornado, and hurricane. (4)  Power line The term  power line  includes distribution lines and transmission lines.
