
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  No Glory for Hate Act .
  2.  Federal funds restriction on commemorating certain former Presidents  Notwithstanding section 3102 of title 40, United States Code, no Federal funds may be used to— 
 (1)  create or display any symbol, monument, or statue commemorating any former President that has been twice impeached by the House of Representatives on or before the date of enactment of this Act or has been convicted of a State or Federal crime relating to actions taken in an official capacity as President of the United States on Federal public land, including any highway, park, subway, Federal building, military installation, street, or other Federal property; or   (2)  name, designate, or redesignate a Federal building or Federal land after, or in commemoration of, any former President that has been twice impeached by the House of Representatives on or before the date of enactment of this Act or has been convicted of a State or Federal crime relating to actions taken in an official capacity as President of the United States. 

 3.  Restriction of Federal funds for property bearing the name of certain former Presidents  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Federal funds or other Federal financial assistance may be provided to a State, political subdivision thereof, or entity if any such funds or financial assistance will be used for the benefit of any building, land, structure, installation, or any other property that bears the name, or is named or designated in commemoration of, any former President that has been twice impeached by the House of Representatives on or before the date of enactment of this Act or has been convicted of a State or Federal crime relating to actions taken in an official capacity as President of the United States.  
  4.  Former Presidents Act restriction Notwithstanding any provision of the Act entitled  An Act to provide retirement, clerical assistants, and free mailing privileges to former Presidents of the United States, and for other purposes , approved August 25, 1958 ( 3 U.S.C. 102  note; commonly known as the  Former Presidents Act of 1958 ), any former President that has been twice impeached by the House of Representatives on or before the date of enactment of this Act or has been convicted of a State or Federal crime relating to actions taken in an official capacity as President of the United States is not entitled to receive any benefit, other than Secret Service protection, under such Act. 

 5.  Prohibition of burial of certain former Presidents  Section 7722(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:     (3)  In carrying out paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary of Defense shall not approve a determination of eligibility for interment or inurnment in Arlington National Cemetery made by the Secretary of the Army that permits the interment or inurnment in Arlington National Cemetery of any former President that has been twice impeached by the House of Representatives on or before the date of enactment of this Act or has been convicted of a State or Federal crime relating to actions taken in an official capacity as President of the United States.  .  

