 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Making Aid for Local Disasters Equal Now Act  or the  MALDEN Act . 
 2.  Declaration time frame  (a)  Major disaster declaration Section 401(a) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5170 ) is amended by adding at the end the following:  A major disaster declaration under this section shall be made not later than 30 days after a request by a Governor or the Chief Executive of an affected Indian Tribal Government. Failure to meet the 30-day requirement shall result in an automatic approval of such request for a declaration. . (b)  Emergency declaration Section 501(a) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5191 ) is amended by adding at the end the following:  An emergency declaration under this section shall be made not later than 30 days after a request for a declaration by a Governor or the Chief Executive of an affected Indian Tribal Government. Failure to meet the 30-day requirement shall result in an automatic approval of such request for a declaration. .
 3.  Rural assistance Section 326 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5165d ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (d)  Additional assistance for rural areas  If a disaster or emergency occurs in a rural area, regardless if a declaration has been made, the Small State and Rural Advocate shall work in coordination with the State, Territory or Tribal Emergency Management Agency to provide guidance to the rural areas emergency manager on developing a recovery team, including resources to help prevent flooding, mudslides, rockslides or any other natural disaster that could result after a wildfire and identifying available resources for both short-term and long-term recovery, including resources to help prevent a future natural disaster within the burned area.”.  (e)  Case worker availability  In a case in which a request for individual assistance in a rural area is made under section 408 but denied, the Small State and Rural Advocate shall work in coordination with the affected State, Territory or Tribal Emergency Management Agency to make disaster case workers available to the residents impacted by the disaster or emergency.  . 
