 1.  Short title; sense of Congress  (a)  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Foreign-Free Elections Act . (b)  Sense of Congress  It is the sense of Congress that—  (1)  because Federal elections decide the future of American citizens, it is unacceptable to have any foreign participation in these elections; and  (2)  elections in the United States should be carried out with the highest degree of integrity and safeguards to ensure legality and United States control, in order to prevent the disenfranchisement of legal voters. 
 2.  Prohibiting participation of foreign entities in administration of Federal elections  (a)  Prohibition Title III of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 ( 52 U.S.C. 21081  et seq.) is amended— (1)  by redesignating sections 304 and 305 as sections 305 and 306; and  (2)  by inserting after section 303 the following new section:  304.  Prohibiting participation of foreign entities in administration of elections  (a)  Prohibition  Each State shall ensure that no foreign entity carries out any role in the administration of elections for Federal office in the State, including providing, maintaining, programming, operating, storing, or compiling any of the equipment, software, supplies, or information used in the administration of the election.  (b)  Role of nonprofit organizations  A nonprofit organization may not carry out any activities related to voting or elections for public office in a State if the organization accepts any funds from a foreign entity.  (c)  Foreign entity defined In this section, the term  foreign entity  means— (1)  any individual who is not a citizen or national of the United States;  (2) any person who is a foreign principal described in section 1(b) of the of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended ( 22 U.S.C. 611(b) ); (3)  any partnership, association, corporation, or other business organization in which any individual described in paragraph (1) or any person described in paragraph (2) directly or indirectly owns or controls any voting share or directly or indirectly has any ownership interest; and  (4)  any person (including a citizen or national of the United States) who, at the time of carrying out any role requiring connection to or use of the Internet in the administration of an election for Federal office, is not present in a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, or the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. 
 .  (b)  Conforming amendment relating to enforcement Section 401 of such Act ( 52 U.S.C. 21111 ) is amended by striking  and 303  and inserting  303, and 304 . (c)  Clerical amendment  The table of contents of such Act is amended—  (1)  by redesignating the items relating to sections 304 and 305 as relating to sections 305 and 306; and  (2)  by inserting after the item relating to section 303 the following new item:  Sec. 304. Prohibiting participation of foreign entities in administration of elections.  . 
