 1.  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1)  Lift Every Voice and Sing  is a beloved hymn that is currently produced and distributed by approximately 40 religious publishing houses throughout the United States. (2)  Lift Every Voice and Sing  is regularly sung at various religious services and choir performances at community and cultural events to commemorate the struggles that have accompanied our Nation’s  pursuit of a more perfect Union . (3) James Weldon Johnson wrote the poem  Lift Every Voice and Sing  in 1899 to celebrate the anniversary of President Abraham Lincoln’s birthday, and his brother, John Rosamond Johnson, set the poem to music. (4)  Lift Every Voice and Sing  was first performed on February 12, 1900, by a choir of 500 school children from the Stanton School in the Johnsons’ hometown of Jacksonville, Florida, where James Weldon Johnson served as the principal. (5) In 1905, Booker T. Washington’s recognition of  Lift Every Voice and Sing  helped to make it a very popular song in Black communities throughout the United States. (6)  In 1906, President Theodore Roosevelt named James Weldon Johnson to diplomatic positions in Venezuela and Nicaragua, and when he returned to the United States, he became affiliated with the NAACP.  (7) In the 1920s, the NAACP chose  Lift Every Voice and Sing  as its official song and it was dubbed the  Black National anthem . (8)  In 1934, James Weldon Johnson, a graduate of Clark Atlanta University, became the first African-American professor at New York University, and later served in a similar capacity at Fisk University in Nashville, Tennessee.  (9) The lyrics of  Lift Every Voice and Sing  inspired the 16 foot sculpture,  The Harp  created by the renowned artist Augusta Savage and commissioned by the 1939 New York World’s Fair. (10)  Lift Every Voice and Sing  is sung at gatherings of the Faith and Politics Institute, whose bipartisan programs and pilgrimages include participation by Members of Congress, and was co-chaired for many years by the late Congressmen, Democrat John Lewis and Republican Amo Houghton, both of whom transitioned in 2020.
 2.  National hymn  (a)  In general  Chapter 3  of title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:  306.  National hymn The composition consisting of the words and music known as  Lift Every Voice and Sing  is designated as the national hymn of the United States.
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections for  chapter 3  of title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:  306. National hymn.  . 
