 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Stop Iranian Drones Act .
 2.  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1) A July 15, 2013, United Nations General Assembly Report on the continuing operation of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms and its further development (document A/68/140) states in paragraph 45,  The Group noted the discussion of the 2006 Group that category IV already covered armed unmanned aerial vehicles and of the 2009 Group on a proposal to include a new category for such vehicles. The Group reviewed proposals for providing greater clarity to category IV. . (2) Section 107 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act ( 22 U.S.C. 9406 ), enacted August 2, 2017, requires the President to impose sanctions on any person that the President determines  knowingly engages in any activity that materially contributes to the supply, sale, or transfer directly or indirectly to or from Iran, or for the use in or benefit of Iran, of any battle tanks, armored combat vehicles, large caliber artillery systems, combat aircraft, attack helicopters, warships, missiles or missile systems, as defined for the purpose of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms, or related materiel, including spare parts . (3) In 2019, the United Nations formally changed the heading of category IV of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms to  combat aircraft and unmanned combat aerial vehicles .
 3.  Statement of policy  It shall be the policy of the United States to prevent Iran and Iranian-aligned terrorist and militia groups from acquiring unmanned aerial vehicles, including commercially available component parts, that can be used in attacks against United States persons and partner nations.  
 4.  Amendment to Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act relating to sanctions with respect to Iran  (a)  In general Section 107 of the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act ( 22 U.S.C. 9406 ) is amended— (1) in the section heading, by striking  enforcement of arms embargos  and inserting  sanctions with respect to major conventional arms ; and (2) in subsection (a)(1), by inserting  or unmanned combat aerial vehicles  after  combat aircraft . (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of contents for the Countering America’s Adversaries Through Sanctions Act is amended by striking the item relating to section 107 and inserting the following:  Sec. 107. Sanctions with respect to major conventional arms.  .  (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and apply with respect to any person that knowingly engages in any activity that materially contributes to the supply, sale, or transfer directly or indirectly to or from Iran, or for the use in or benefit of Iran, of any unmanned combat aerial vehicles, as defined for the purpose of the United Nations Register of Conventional Arms, before, on, or after such date of enactment.  
