 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Honoring Our Promises through Expedition for Afghan SIVs Act of 2021  or the  HOPE for Afghan SIVs Act of 2021 .
 2.  Waiver of medical exam for Afghan allies  (a)  Authorization The Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security may waive any requirement to undergo a medical exam under section 232 of the Immigration and Nationality ( 8 U.S.C. 1222 ), or any other applicable requirement to undergo a medical exam prior to admission to the United States, for aliens described in section 602(b)(2) of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 ( 8 U.S.C. 1101  note).  (b)  Duration  The waiver authorized under subsection (a) shall be for a period of 1 year, and may be extended for additional 1-year periods.  (c)  Requirement for medical exam after admission  (1)  In general  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall ensure that any alien who does not undergo a medical exam prior to admission to the United States pursuant to this section, receives such an exam not later than 90 days after the alien is admitted to the United States.  (2)  Report  On the date that is one year after the date on which the waiver authority under subsection (a) is exercised, and on the date that is one year after any extension under subsection (b), the Secretary of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on the medical exams given under paragraph (1).   (d)  Notification  If the Secretary of State or the Secretary of Homeland Security exercises the waiver authority under subsection (a), or extends such a waiver under subsection (b), the Secretary shall notify the appropriate congressional committees.  (e)  Appropriate congressional committees The term  appropriate congressional committees  means—  (1)   the Committees on Armed Services of the House of Representatives and of the Senate;  (2)  the Committees on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives and of the Senate;   (3)  the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate; and  (4)  the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.  (f)  Sunset  The authority under subsections (a) and (b) expires on the date that is 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act.  
