 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Gold Star Spouses Non-Monetary Benefits Act . 
 2.  Federal benefits for remarried surviving spouses eligible for the Gold Star lapel button  (a)  Civil service  (1)  Preference eligible Section 2108(3)(D) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking  unmarried . (2)  Noncompetitive appointment  Section 3330d(a)(3)(B) of such title is amended to read as follows:  (B)  who was married to a member of the Armed Forces on the date on which the member dies while on active duty in the Armed Forces.  .  (b)  Department of Defense  (1)  Commissary and exchange benefits  Section 1062 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—  (A) by inserting (a)  Unremarried former spouses .— before  The Secretary ; and (B)  by adding at the end the following new subsection:  (b)  Surviving spouses eligible for the gold star lapel buttion  The Secretary of Defense shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to provide that a surviving spouse eligible for the gold star lapel button under section 1126 of this title is entitled to commissary and exchange privileges to the same extent and on the same basis as the surviving spouse of a retired member of the uniformed services.  .  (2)  Certain morale, welfare, and recreation privileges  (A)  In general  Chapter 54  of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 1066.  Use of commissary stores and MWR facilities: surviving spouses eligible for the gold star lapel button   (a)  Eligibility of surviving spouses eligible for the gold star lapel button  A surviving spouse who is eligible for a gold star lapel button under section 1126 of this title shall be permitted to use commissary stores and MWR retail facilities on the same basis as the dependent of a member of the armed forces on active duty.  (b)  MWR retail facilities defined In this section, the term  MWR retail facilities  has the meaning given that term in section 1063 of this title.
 .  (B)  Clerical amendment The table of sections at the beginning of  chapter 54  of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new item: 1066. Use of commissary stores and MWR facilities: surviving spouses eligible for the gold star lapel button.  .  (3)  Eligibility for medical and dental care  Paragraph (2) of section 1072 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—  (A) in subparagraph (H), by striking  ; and  and inserting a semicolon; (B) in subparagraph (I)(v), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and (C)  by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:  (J)  A surviving spouse who is eligible for a gold star lapel button under section 1126 of this title.  .  (4)  Entitlement to medical and dental care  Section 1076(a)(2) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:  (F)  A surviving spouse who is eligible for a gold star lapel button under section 1126 of this title.  .  (c)  Department of Veterans Affairs  (1)  Special marriage provisions  Section 103(d)(2) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:  (C)  The remarriage of the surviving spouse of a veteran shall not bar the furnishing of non-monetary benefits to such surviving spouse if such surviving spouse is eligible for a gold star lapel button under section 1126 of title 10.  .  (2)  Eligibility for housing and small business loans  Section 3701(b) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:  (8) The term  veteran  also includes an individual who is— (A)  the surviving spouse of a veteran; and  (B)  eligible for a gold star lapel button under section 1126 of title 10.  .  (d)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply beginning on the first day of the first month beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
