 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Food Recovery Transportation Act . 
 2.  Food waste recovery transportation grants  (a)  Authority To provide assistance  (1)  In general  From amounts made available to carry out this section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall make grants to assist an eligible entity with—  (A)  purchasing, leasing, or otherwise acquiring vehicles, including refrigerated vehicles, or other equipment to carry out activities related to food recovery;  (B)  reimbursing travel costs related to food recovery at the per mile rate established by the Commissioner of the Internal Revenue Service; and  (C)  the costs of preparing, storing, and transporting donated food.  (2)  Limitation  An eligible entity may only receive one grant under this section.  (b)  Application  To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary of Agriculture, at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary of Agriculture may require.  (c)  Eligible entity  To be eligible for a grant under subsection (a), a public food program service provider, a tribal organization, or a private nonprofit entity (including a gleaner) shall—  (1)  have experience in the area of—  (A)  food recovery and distribution, particularly concerning small and medium-sized farms;  (B)  job training and business development activities for food-related activities in low-income communities; or  (C)  efforts to reduce food insecurity in the community, including food recovery and distribution, improving access to services, or coordinating services and programs; and  (2)  demonstrate competency to implement a project, provide fiscal accountability, collect data, and prepare reports and other necessary documentation.  (d)  Gleaner defined In this section, the term  gleaner  has the meaning given the term in section 25(a)(2) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ( 7 U.S.C. 2034(a)(2) ). (e)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to carry out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2022. 
