 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Pee Dee Indian Acknowledgement Act .
 2.  Federal recognition  (a)  Federal recognition  Federal recognition is extended to the Pee Dee Indian Tribe of McColl, South Carolina.  (b)  Applicability of laws All laws (including regulations) of the United States of general applicability to Indians or Nations, Indian Tribes, or bands of Indians (including the Act of June 18, 1934 ( 25 U.S.C. 461  et seq.)) shall be applicable to the Pee Dee Indian Tribe of McColl, South Carolina, and members of that Tribe.
 3.  Federal services and benefits  (a)  In general  Beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Tribe and each member shall be eligible for all services and benefits provided by the United States to Indians and federally recognized Indian tribes, without regard to—  (1)  the existence of a reservation for the Tribe; or  (2)  the location of the residence of any member on or near an Indian reservation.  (b)  Service area  For purposes of the delivery of services and benefits to members, the service area of the Tribe shall be considered to be the area comprised of Marlboro County in the State of South Carolina. 
 4.  Membership roll  (a)  In general  As a condition of receiving recognition, services, and benefits pursuant to this Act, the Tribe shall submit to the Secretary, by not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, a membership roll consisting of the name of each individual enrolled as a member of the Tribe.  (b)  Determination of membership  The qualifications for inclusion on the membership roll of the Tribe shall be determined in accordance with sections 1 through 5 of article III of the proposed constitution of the Tribe dated December 2020 (including amendments to the constitution).  (c)  Maintenance of roll  The Tribe shall maintain the membership roll under this section. 
 5.  Definitions  For the purposes of this Act:  (1)  Member The term  member  means an individual duly enrolled in the roll of the Tribe described in section 4. (2)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior. (3)  Tribe The term  Tribe  means the Pee Dee Indian Tribe of McColl, South Carolina.
