 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protecting Life on College Campus Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Prohibition on award of funds to certain institutions of higher education  (a)  Prohibition  No Federal funds may be awarded (directly or indirectly, including through a contract or subcontract) to any institution of higher education that hosts or is affiliated with any school-based service site that provides abortion drugs or abortions to students of the institution or to employees of the institution or site.  (b)  Annual reporting  To remain eligible for awards of Federal funds, an institution of higher education that hosts or is affiliated with one or more school-based service sites shall submit an annual report to the Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Health and Human Services certifying that no such site provides abortion drugs or abortions to students of the institution or to employees of the institution or site.  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  abortion drug  means any drug, substance, or combination of drugs or substances that is intended for use or that is in fact used (irrespective of how the product is labeled)— (A)  to intentionally kill the unborn child of a woman known to be pregnant; or  (B)  to intentionally terminate the pregnancy of a woman known to be pregnant, with an intention other than—  (i)  to produce a live birth; or  (ii)  to remove a dead unborn child.  (2) The term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given to such term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001 ). (3) The term  school-based service site  means— (A)  a health clinic that—  (i) meets the definition of a school-based health center under section 2110(c)(9)(A) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1397jj(c)(9)(A) ) and is administered by a sponsoring facility (as defined in section 2110(c)(9)(B) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1397jj(c)(9)(B) )); and (ii)  provides, at a minimum, comprehensive primary health services during school hours by health professionals in accordance with established standards, community practice, reporting laws, and other State laws, including parental consent and notification laws that are not inconsistent with Federal law; or  (B)  a clinic providing health care services (including primary health services, family planning services, telehealth services, and pharmaceutical services, without regard to whether the services are provided by employees of the clinic or contracted providers) to students that is located on the campus of an institution of higher education that accepts Federal funding. 
