 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  NICS Denial Notification Act of 2021 .
 2.  Reporting of background check denials  (a)  In general  Chapter 44  of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 925A  the following: 925B.  Reporting of background check denials to State authorities  (a)  In general If the national instant criminal background check system established under section 103 of the Brady Handgun Violence Prevention Act ( 18 U.S.C. 922  note) provides a notice pursuant to section 922(t) of this title that the receipt of a firearm by a person would violate subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 of this title or State law, the Attorney General shall, in accordance with subsection (b) of this section— (1)  report to the law enforcement authorities of the State where the person sought to acquire the firearm and, if different, the law enforcement authorities of the State of residence of the person—  (A)  that the notice was provided;  (B)  of the specific provision of law that would have been violated;  (C)  of the date and time the notice was provided;  (D)  of the location where the firearm was sought to be acquired; and  (E)  of the identity of the person; and  (2)  where practicable, report the incident to local law enforcement authorities and State and local prosecutors in the jurisdiction where the firearm was sought and in the jurisdiction where the person resides.  (b)  Requirements for report  A report is made in accordance with this subsection if the report is made within 24 hours after the provision of the notice described in subsection (a), except that the making of the report may be delayed for so long as is necessary to avoid compromising an ongoing investigation.  (c)  Rule of construction  Nothing in subsection (a) shall be construed to require a report with respect to a person to be made to the same State authorities that originally issued the notice with respect to the person. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections for such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 925A the following:  925B. Reporting of background check denials to State authorities.  . 
 3.  Annual report to Congress  (a)  In general  Chapter 44  of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 2(a) of this Act, is amended by inserting after section 925B the following: 925C.  Annual report to Congress  Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, and annually thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit to the Congress a report detailing the following, broken down by Federal judicial district:  (1)  With respect to each category of persons prohibited by section 922(g) from receiving or possessing a firearm who are so denied a firearm—  (A)  the number of cases referred to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;  (B)  the number of cases with respect to which an investigation was opened by a field division of the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms and Explosives;  (C)  the number of arrests made; and  (D)  the number of convictions obtained by Federal authorities in connection with the denial.  (2)  The number of background check notices reported to State authorities pursuant to section 925B (including the number of the notices that would have been so reported but for section 925B(c)). 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections for such chapter, as amended by section 2(b) of this Act, is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 925B the following:  925C. Annual report to Congress.  . 
