 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  American Election Security Act .
 2.  Prohibiting use of voting system produced by foreign entity in elections for Federal office  (a)  Prohibition Section 301(a) of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 ( 52 U.S.C. 21081(a) ) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraphs: (7)  System hardware and software manufactured and maintained in United States  All of the hardware components and all of the software components of the system shall be manufactured in the United States, and all of the hardware components or software components shall be maintained and serviced only by persons who are in the United States.  (8)  System not produced by foreign entity  (A)  In general  The voting system may not be produced by a foreign entity.  (B)  Foreign entity defined In subparagraph (A), the term  foreign entity  means any of the following: (i)  A foreign national.  (ii)  Any corporation which is not a foreign national and in which a foreign national or an alien directly or indirectly owns or controls any voting share.  (iii)  Any corporation which is not a foreign national and with respect to which any of the members of the board of directors are foreign nationals or aliens.  (iv)  Any corporation which is not a foreign national and over which one or more foreign nationals or aliens has the power to direct, dictate, or control the decision-making process of the corporation with respect to its interests in the United States.  (C)  Foreign national defined In this paragraph, the term  foreign national  has the meaning given such term in section 1(b) of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended ( 22 U.S.C. 611(b) ), except that such term shall not include any individual who is a citizen of the United States. (D)  Alien defined In this paragraph, the term  alien  means an individual who is not a citizen of the United States or a national of the United States (as defined in section 101(a)(22) of the Immigration and Nationality Act), and who is not lawfully admitted for permanent residence (as defined in section 101(a)(20) of such Act). .  (b)  Effective date Section 301(d) of such Act ( 52 U.S.C. 21081(d) ) is amended to read as follows: (d)  Effective date  (1)  In general  Except as provided in paragraph (2), each State and jurisdiction shall be required to comply with the requirements of this section on and after January 1, 2006.  (2)  Special rule for requirements relating to foreign entities  In the case of the requirements of paragraphs (7) and (8) of subsection (a), each State and jurisdiction shall be required to comply with such requirements on and after the date of the enactment of the American Election Security Act.  . 
