 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Enhancing Administrative Reviews for Broadband Deployment Act . 
 2.  Enabling administrative review  (a)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Appropriate committees of Congress The term  appropriate committees of Congress  means— (A)  the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives;  (B)  the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives;  (C)  the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and  (D)  the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.  (2)  Communications facility The term  communications facility  includes— (A)  any infrastructure, including any transmitting device, tower, or support structure, and any equipment, switch, wiring, cabling, power source, shelter, or cabinet, associated with the licensed or permitted unlicensed wireless or wireline transmission of any writing, sign, signal, data, image, picture, and sound of any kind; and  (B)  any antenna or apparatus that—  (i)  is designed for the purpose of emitting radio frequency;  (ii)  is designed to be operated, or is operating, from a fixed location pursuant to authorization by the Commission or is using a duly authorized device that does not require an individual license; and  (iii)  is added to a tower, building, or other structure.  (3)  Communications site The term  communications site  means an area of covered land designated for communications uses. (4)  Communications use The term  communications use  means the placement and operation of communications facility. (5)  Communications use authorization The term  communications use authorization  means an easement, right-of-way, lease, license, or other authorization to locate or modify a communications facility on covered land by the Department concerned for the primary purpose of authorizing the occupancy and use of the covered land for communications use. (6)  Covered land The term  covered land  means— (A)  public land administered by the Secretary of the Interior; and  (B)  National Forest System land.  (7)  Department concerned The term  Department concerned  means the Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture. (8)  Organizational unit The term  organizational unit  means— (A)  with respect to public land administered by the Secretary of the Interior—  (i)  a State office;  (ii)  a district office; or  (iii)  a field office; and  (B)  within the Forest Service—  (i)  a regional office;  (ii)  the headquarters;  (iii)  a management unit; or  (iv)  a ranger district office.  (9)  Secretary concerned The term  Secretary concerned  means— (A)  the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to public land; and  (B)  the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to National Forest System land.  (b)  Study required  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report that—  (1)  provides an assessment on programmatic or administrative barriers to reviewing communications use authorizations by the Department concerned or organizational units of the Department concerned;  (2)  provides an assessment whether there are rules or regulations of the Department concerned that could be revised to improve the efficiency of reviewing a communications use authorization;  (3)  describes the process for prioritizing the review of a communications use authorization; and  (4)  provides a plan to ensure adequate staffing throughout organizational units of the Department concerned to review communications use authorizations in a timely manner. 
