 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Supply Chain Security Training Act of 2021 .
 2.  Training program to manage supply chain risk  (a)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of General Services, through the Federal Acquisition Institute, shall develop a training program for officials with supply chain risk management responsibilities at Federal agencies.  (b)  Content  The training program shall be designed to prepare such personnel to perform supply chain risk management activities and identify and mitigate supply chain security threats that arise throughout the acquisition lifecycle, including for the acquisition of information and communications technology. The training program shall—  (1)  include, considering the protection of classified and other sensitive information, information on current, specific supply chain security threats; and  (2)  be updated as determined to be necessary by the Administrator.  (c)  Coordination and consultation  In developing the training program, the Administrator shall—  (1)  coordinate with the Federal Acquisition Security Council, the Secretary of Homeland Security, and the Director of the Office of Personnel Management; and  (2)  consult with the Director of the Department of Defense’s Defense Acquisition University and the Director of National Intelligence.  (d)  Guidance  (1)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the training program is developed under subsection (a), the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall promulgate guidance to Federal agencies requiring executive agency adoption and use of the training program. Such guidance shall—  (A)  allow executive agencies to incorporate the training program into existing agency training programs; and  (B)  provide guidance on how to identify executive agency officials with supply chain risk management responsibilities.  (2)  Availability  The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall make the guidance promulgated under paragraph (1) available to Federal agencies of the legislative and judicial branches. 
 3.  Reports on implementation of program  Not later than 180 days after the completion of the first course, and annually thereafter for the next three years, the Administrator of General Services shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees and leadership a report on implementation of the training program required under section 2. 
 4.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Appropriate congressional committees and leadership The term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (A)  the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate; and  (B)  the Committee on Oversight and Reform and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives.  (2)  Information and communications technology The term  information and communications technology  has the meaning given the term in section 4713(k) of title 41, United States Code. (3)  Executive agency The term  executive agency  has the meaning given the term in section 133 of title 41, United States Code. (4)  Federal agency The term  Federal agency  means any agency, committee, commission, office, or other establishment in the executive, legislative, or judicial branch of the Federal Government. (5)  Training program The term  training program  means the training program developed pursuant to section 2(a). 
