 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Retirement Savings Lost and Found Act of 2021 .
 2.  Retirement Savings Lost and Found  (a)  In general  (1)  Establishment of retirement savings lost and found Subtitle C of title IV of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( 29 U.S.C. 1341 et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following: 4051.  Retirement Savings Lost and Found  (a)  Establishment  (1)  In general Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall establish an online searchable database (to be managed by the Secretary in accordance with this section) to be known as the  Retirement Savings Lost and Found . The Retirement Savings Lost and Found shall— (A)  allow an individual to search for information that enables the individual to locate the administrator of any plan described in paragraph (2) with respect to which the individual is or was a participant or beneficiary, and to provide contact information for the administrator of any such plan;  (B)  allow the Secretary to assist such an individual in locating any such plan of the individual; and  (C)  allow the Secretary to make any necessary changes to contact information on record for the administrator based on any changes to the plan due to merger or consolidation of the plan with any other plan, division of the plan into two or more plans, bankruptcy, termination, change in name of the plan, change in name or address of the administrator, or other causes.  The Retirement Savings Lost and Found established under this paragraph shall include information reported under this section and other relevant information obtained by the Secretary.   (2)  Plans described  A plan described in this paragraph is a plan to which the vesting standards of section 203 apply.  (b)  Administration  The Retirement Savings Lost and Found established under subsection (a) shall provide individuals described in subsection (a)(1) only with the ability to view contact information for the administrator of any plan with respect to which the individual is or was a participant or beneficiary, sufficient to allow the individual to locate the individual’s plan in order to recover any benefit owing to the individual under the plan.  (c)  Safeguarding participant privacy and security  In establishing the Retirement Savings Lost and Found under subsection (a), the Secretary shall take all necessary and proper precautions to ensure that individuals’ plan information maintained by the Retirement Savings Lost and Found is protected and that persons other than the individual cannot fraudulently claim the benefits to which any individual is entitled.  (d)  Definitions  For purposes of this section and section 4052—  (1) the term  administrator  has the meaning given such term in section 3(16)(A); and (2) the term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Labor.
 4052.  Office of the Retirement Savings Lost and Found  (a)  Establishment; Responsibilities of Office  (1)  In general Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, shall establish within the Department of Labor an Office of the Retirement Savings Lost and Found (in this section referred to as the  Office ). (2)  Responsibilities of office  The Office shall—  (A)  carry out subsection (b) of this section; and  (B)  maintain the Retirement Savings Lost and Found established under section 4051.  (b)  Certain non-Responsive participants entitled to small benefits  (1)  General rule  (A)  Transfer to the office of the retirement savings lost and found The administrator of a plan that is not terminated and to which  section 401(a)(31)(B)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 applies may transfer to the Office the amount allowed to be transferred under section 401(a)(31)(B)(iv) of such Code for a non-responsive participant (after the requirements of section 401(a)(31)(B)(iii) are met). (B)  Information and payment to the office  Upon making a transfer under subparagraph (A), the administrator shall provide to the Office such information and certifications as the Office shall specify, including with respect to the transferred amount and the non-responsive participant, within such time and in such manner as may be specified by the Office.  (C)  Information requirements after transfer  (i)  In general  In the event that, after a transfer is made under subparagraph (A), the relevant non-responsive participant contacts the administrator, the administrator shall notify and provide such information to the non-responsive participant, within such time and in such manner, as the Office shall specify.  (ii)  Civil penalty  The Secretary may assess a civil penalty against the administrator of a plan of up to $100 a day from the date of the administrator’s failure or refusal to provide notice and required information to a non-responsive participant in accordance with clause (i).  (D)  Search and payment by the office following transfer  Upon receiving information described in subparagraph (C), the Office shall attempt to contact (including conducting a search for) the non-responsive participant for whom the Office has received a transfer under subparagraph (A). Upon location of a non-responsive participant who claims benefits, the Office shall make a single payment to the non-responsive participant in an amount equal to the sum of—  (i)  the amount transferred to the Office under subparagraph (A) for such participant; and  (ii)  interest, determined in the same manner as for purposes of section 4050. The Office shall take all reasonable steps to assist the participant to roll over the payment made under this paragraph to an eligible retirement plan (as defined in  section 402(c)(8)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986) in a manner that ensures that such payment will not be includible in the gross income of the participant for the taxable year in which paid.  (2)  Definition For purposes of this subsection, the term  non-responsive participant  means— (A)  a participant or beneficiary of a plan described in paragraph (1)(A)—  (i) who is entitled to a benefit subject to a transfer under  section 401(a)(31)(B)(iii)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and (ii)  for whom the plan has satisfied the conditions in such section and section 401(a)(31)(B)(iv) of such Code, and any requirements relating to the location of missing participants established by the Secretary pursuant to title I of this Act; and  (B)  any other participant or beneficiary determined to be lost or missing under regulations to be issued by the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury.  (3)  Regulatory authority  The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this section.  (c)  Information collection  The administrator of a plan to which the vesting standards of section 203 apply shall submit to the Office, at such time and in such form and manner as is prescribed in regulations—  (1) the information described in paragraphs (1) through (4) of  section 6057(b)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; (2) the information described in subparagraphs (A), (B), (E), and (F) of  section 6057(a)(2)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and (3)  such other information as the Secretary may require.  (d)  Program integrity audit  On an annual basis for each of the first 5 years beginning after the date of enactment of this section and every 5 years thereafter, the Inspector General of the Department of Labor shall conduct an audit of the administration of the Retirement Savings Lost and Found by the Office, including an assessment of fraud relating to claims of benefits.  (e)  Application of State escheat laws  No State law relating to the disposition of unclaimed or abandoned property under which a benefit amount under a plan to which this section applies would escheat to a State or otherwise become the property of a State under such a law shall apply with respect to any such benefit amount for any period beginning on or after the date of enactment of this section.  (f)  Effective date  The requirements of subsections (b), (c), and (d) shall apply with respect to plan years beginning after the second December 31 occurring after the date of the enactment of this section.  (g)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this section. 
 .  (2)  Conforming amendment The table of contents for the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( 29 U.S.C. 1001 et seq. ) is amended by inserting after the matter relating to section 4050 the following: Sec. 4051. Retirement Savings Lost and Found.   Sec. 4052. Office of the Retirement Savings Lost and Found.  .  (b)  Mandatory transfers of rollover distributions  (1)  Investment options  (A)  In general Subparagraph (B) of section 404(c)(3) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( 29 U.S.C. 1104(c)(3) ) is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting , and, to the extent the Secretary of Labor provides in guidance or regulations issued after the enactment of this Act, is made to—  (i)  a target date or life cycle fund held under such account;  (ii)  as described in section 2550.404a–2 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations, an investment product held under such account designed to preserve principal and provide a reasonable rate of return;  (iii) the Office of the Retirement Savings Lost and Found in accordance with  section 401(a)(31)(B)(iv)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and section 4052(b)(1)(A); or (iv)  such other option as the Secretary of Labor may so provide.  .  (B)  Regulations Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall promulgate regulations identifying the target date or life cycle funds, or specifying the characteristics of such a fund, that will be deemed to meet the requirements of section 404(c)(3)(B)(i) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( 29 U.S.C. 1104(c)(3)(B) ), as amended by subparagraph (A). (2)  Expansion of cap; authority to transfer lesser amounts  (A)  Cap Sections  401(a)(31)(B)(ii)  and  411(a)(11)(A)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and section 203(e)(1) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 are each amended by striking  $5,000  and inserting  $6,000 . (B)  Distribution of larger amounts to individual retirement plans only Section 401(a)(31)(B)(i) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following:  The Office of the Retirement Savings Lost and Found established by section 4051 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 shall not be treated as a trustee or issuer that is eligible to receive such distributions. . (C)  Lesser amounts  (i)  Amendment of Internal Revenue Code of 1986  Section 401(a)(31)(B) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new clauses:  (iii)  Treatment of lesser amounts  In the case of a trust which is part of an eligible plan (as defined in clause (ii)) to which the vesting standards of section 203 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 apply, such trust shall not be a qualified trust under this section unless such plan provides that, if a participant in the plan separates from the service covered by the plan and the nonforfeitable accrued benefit described in clause (ii) is not in excess of $1,000 (including in any case in which payment of such a benefit is attempted but not accepted by the participant or beneficiary within 6 months of such payment attempt)—  (I)  the plan administrator may, after conducting a diligent search as provided in clause (vi) and notifying the participant (either separately or as part of the notice under section 402(f) of such Code) that the participant is entitled to such benefit, or attempting to pay the benefit directly to the participant, transfer such amount to the Office in accordance with clause (iv); and  (II)  the plan administrator shall not charge against the benefit any administrative or other fee for such transfer.  (iv)  Transfers to retirement savings lost and found  If, after a plan administrator takes the actions required under clause (iii)(I), the participant does not—  (I)  not later than 3 years after the notification under such paragraph, make an election under subparagraph (A) or elect to receive a distribution of the benefit directly, or  (II)  accept any payment made under such clause within 3 years of the attempted payment,  the plan administrator may transfer the amount of such benefit to the Office of the Retirement Savings Lost and Found in accordance with section 4052(b) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974.   (v)  Income tax treatment of transfers to and distributions from retirement savings lost and found  For purposes of determining the income tax treatment of transfers to the Office of the Retirement Savings Lost and Found under clause (iv) or of transfers to an employee benefit plan or individual retirement account—  (I)  such a transfer shall be treated as a transfer to an individual retirement plan under clause (i); and  (II)  the distribution of such amounts by the Office of the Retirement Savings Lost and Found shall be treated as a distribution in accordance with section 4050(a) of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 from an individual retirement plan.  (vi)  Diligent search  For purposes of clause (iii), a diligent search requires taking all of the following steps, consistent with guidance issued by the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this clause:  (I)  A search for alternate contact information (address, telephone, or email) in the possession of the plan, any related plan, or the plan sponsor.  (II)  Use of free online search engines, public record databases, publicly available directories, or obituaries.  (III)  Use of a commercial locator service, a credit reporting agency or a proprietary internet search tool for locating individuals.  (IV)  The mailing of a contact letter sent by United States Postal Service via certified mail to the last known address and to any other alternate address found.  .  (ii)  Amendment of Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 Section 404 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974 ( 29 U.S.C. 1104 ) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: (f)  Safe harbor with respect to transferring account balance of missing participants  (1)  In general With respect to the transfer requirements of  section 401(a)(31)(B)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, the requirements of subsection (a)(1)(B) with respect to the administrator will be deemed to be satisfied in the case of a participant— (A)  who separates from the service covered by the plan, and  (B)  the nonforfeitable accrued benefit of whom (as described in section 401(a)(31)(B)(ii) of such Code) is not in excess of $1,000,  if the administrator adopts practices and procedures with respect to maintaining up-to-date contact information on participants and fulfills the requirements of paragraphs (2), (3), and (4).   (2)  Notification  The requirements of this paragraph are satisfied if the administrator conducts a diligent search as provided in paragraph (4) and notifies the participant (either separately or as part of the notice under section 402(f) of such Code) that the participant is entitled to such benefit, or attempts to pay the benefit directly to the participant.  (3)  Transfers to retirement savings lost and found  If, after an administrator takes the actions required under paragraph (2), the participant does not—  (A)  not later than 3 years after the notification under such paragraph, make an election under section 401(a)(31)(A) of such Code or elect to receive a distribution of the benefit directly, or  (B)  accept any payment made under such paragraph within 3 years of the attempted payment,  the administrator may transfer the amount of such benefit to the Office of the Retirement Savings Lost and Found in accordance with section 4052(b).   (4)  Diligent search  For purposes of paragraph (2), a diligent search requires taking all of the following steps, consistent with guidance issued by the Secretary of Labor, in consultation with the Secretary of the Treasury, not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this clause:  (A)  A search for alternate contact information (address, telephone, or email) in the possession of the plan, any related plan, or the plan sponsor.  (B)  Use of free online search engines, public record databases, publicly available directories, or obituaries.  (C)  Use of a commercial locator service, a credit reporting agency or a proprietary internet search tool for locating individuals.  (D)  The mailing of a contact letter sent by United States Postal Service via certified mail to the last known address and to any other alternate address found.  An administrator of a plan that takes all of the steps described in the preceding subparagraphs and that adopts practices and procedures with respect to maintaining up-to-date contact information on participants shall be deemed to meet its fiduciary duty under section 404 with respect to locating a non-responsive participant (as defined in section 4052(b)(2)).  .  (D)  Effective date  The amendments made by this paragraph shall apply to vested benefits with respect to participants who separate from service connected to the plan in plan years beginning 1 year after the finalization of the regulations issued pursuant to section 4052(b)(2).  (c)  Better reporting for mandatory transfers  (1)  In general Paragraph (2) of  section 6057(a)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended— (A)  in subparagraph (C)—  (i) by striking  during such plan year  in clause (i) and inserting  during the plan year immediately preceding such plan year ; (ii) by adding  and  at the end of clause (i); and (iii)  by striking clause (iii);  (B)  by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (G);  (C) by striking  and  at the end of subparagraph (D); and (D)  by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following new subparagraphs:  (E)  the name and taxpayer identifying number of each participant or former participant in the plan—  (i)  who, during the current plan year or any previous plan year, was reported under subparagraph (C), and with respect to whom the benefits described in subparagraph (C)(ii) were fully paid during the plan year,  (ii)  with respect to whom any amount was distributed under section 401(a)(31)(B) during the plan year, or  (iii)  with respect to whom a deferred annuity contract was distributed during the plan year,  (F)  in the case of a participant or former participant to whom subparagraph (E) applies (and to the extent provided in regulations designed to protect privacy to be issued by the Secretary of Labor)—  (i)  in the case of a participant described in clause (ii) thereof, the name and address of the designated trustee or issuer described in section 401(a)(31)(B)(i) and the account number of the individual retirement plan to which the amount was distributed, and  (ii)  in the case of a participant described in clause (iii) thereof, the name and address of the issuer of such annuity contract and the contract or certificate number, and  .  (2)  Rules relating to direct trustee-to-trustee transfers  (A)  In general  Paragraph (6) of section 402(e) of such Code is amended—  (i) by striking  transfers.— Any and inserting  transfers.—  (A)  In general  Any  ; and  (ii)  by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:  (B)  Notification of trustee  In the case of a distribution under section 401(a)(31)(B), the administrator shall notify the designated trustee or issuer described in clause (i) thereof that the transfer is a mandatory distribution required by such section.  .  (B)  Penalty  Subsection (i) of section 6652 of such Code is amended—  (i) by striking  to Recipients  in the heading and inserting  or Notification ; (ii) by striking  402(f),  and inserting  402(f) or a notification as required by section 402(e)(6)(B), ; and (iii) by striking  such written explanation  and inserting  such written explanation or notification . (C)  Reports  Subsection (i) of section 408 of such Code is amended—  (i)  by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) of paragraph (2) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and by moving such clauses 2 ems to the right;  (ii)  by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and by moving such subparagraphs 2 ems to the right;  (iii) by striking  as the Secretary prescribes  in subparagraph (B)(ii), as so redesignated, and all that follows through  a simple retirement account  and inserting  as the Secretary prescribes . (3)  Simple retirement accounts  In the case of a simple retirement account  ;  (iv) by striking  Reports .—The trustee of and inserting  Reports .— (1)  In general  The trustee of  ;  (v) by striking  under paragraph (2)  in paragraph (3), as redesignated by clause (iii), and inserting  under paragraph (1)(B) ; and (vi)  by inserting after paragraph (1)(B)(ii), as redesignated by the preceding clauses, the following new paragraph:  (2)  Mandatory distributions  In the case of an account, contract, or annuity to which a transfer under section 401(a)(31)(B) is made (including a transfer from the individual retirement plan to which the original transfer under such section was made to another individual retirement plan), the report required by this subsection for the year of the transfer and any year in which the information previously reported in subparagraph (B) changes shall—  (A)  identify such transfer as a mandatory distribution required by such section,  (B)  include the name, address, and taxpayer identifying number of the trustee or issuer of the individual retirement plan to which the amount is transferred, and  (C)  be filed with the Secretary of Labor.  .  (3)  Notification of participants upon separation Subsection (e) of section 6057 of such Code is amended by inserting  , and, with respect to any benefit of the individual subject to section 401(a)(31)(B), a notice of availability of, and the contact information for, the Retirement Savings Lost and Found established under section 4051 of the Employee Retirement Income Security Act of 1974  before the period at the end of the second sentence. (4)  Effective date  The amendments made by this paragraph shall apply to distributions made in, and returns and reports relating to, years beginning after the second December 31 occurring after the date of the enactment of this Act.  (d)  Requirement of electronic filing  (1)  In general Paragraph (2) of  section 6011(e)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended— (A)  by redesignating subparagraphs (A) and (B) as clauses (i) and (ii), respectively, and by moving such clauses 2 ems to the right;  (B) by striking  Regulations .—In prescribing and inserting  Regulations .— (A)  In general  In prescribing  ; and  (C)  by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:  (C)  Exceptions  Notwithstanding subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall require returns or reports required under—  (i)  sections 6057, 6058, and 6059, and  (ii)  sections 408(i), 6041, and 6047 to the extent such return or report relates to the tax treatment of a distribution from a plan, account, contract, or annuity,  to be filed on magnetic media, but only with respect to persons who are required to file at least 50 returns during the calendar year which includes the first day of the plan year to which such returns or reports relate.  .  (2)  Effective date  The amendments made by this paragraph shall apply to returns and reports relating to years beginning after the second December 31 occurring after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
