 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Fair Sugar Policy Act of 2021 .
 2.  Sugar program Section 156(a) of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 ( 7 U.S.C. 7272(a) ) is amended— (1) in paragraph (4), by striking  and  at the end; and (2) in paragraph (5), by striking  2019 through 2023 crop years.  and inserting the following: 2019 and 2020 crop years; and  (6)  18.75 cents per pound for raw cane sugar for each of the 2021 through 2025 crop years.  . 
 3.  Flexible Marketing Allotments for Sugar Repealed and Reform of Tariff Rate Quotas Part VII of subtitle B of title III of the Agricultural Adjustment Act of 1938 ( 7 U.S.C. 1359aa et seq. ) is amended to read as follows: VII  Administration of Tariff Rate Quotas  359a.  Tariff rate quotas  (a)  In general  At the beginning of each quota year, the Secretary shall establish the tariff-rate quotas for raw cane sugar and refined sugar at a level that is not less than the minimum level necessary to comply with obligations under international trade agreements that Congress has approved.  (b)  Adjustment  (1)  In general  Subject to subsection (a), the Secretary shall adjust the tariff-rate quotas for raw cane sugar and refined sugar to provide adequate supplies of sugar at reasonable prices in the domestic market.  (2)  Ending stocks  Subject to paragraphs (1) and (3), the Secretary shall establish and adjust tariff-rate quotas so that the ratio of sugar stocks to total sugar use at the end of each quota year shall be approximately 15.5 percent.  (3)  Maintenance of reasonable prices and avoidance of forfeitures  (A)  In general  The Secretary may establish a different target percentage for the ratio of ending stocks to total use described in paragraph (2) if the Secretary determines the different target percentage is necessary to prevent—  (i)  unreasonably high prices; or  (ii) forfeitures of sugar pledged as collateral for a loan under section 156 of the Federal Agriculture Improvement and Reform Act of 1996 ( 7 U.S.C. 7272 ). (B)  Announcement  The Secretary shall publicly announce an establishment of a target percentage under this paragraph.  (4)  Considerations  In establishing tariff-rate quotas under subsection (a) and making adjustments under this subsection, the Secretary shall consider the impact of the quotas on consumers, workers, businesses (including small businesses), and agricultural producers.  (c)  Temporary transfer of quotas  (1)  In general  To promote the full use of the tariff-rate quotas for raw cane sugar and refined sugar established or adjusted under subsection (a) or (b), respectively, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations that provide that a country that has been allocated a share of the quotas may temporarily transfer all or part of the share to another country that has also been allocated a share of the quotas.  (2)  Transfers voluntary  A transfer under this subsection shall be valid only on voluntary agreement between the transferor and the transferee, consistent with procedures established by the Secretary.  (3)  Transfers temporary  (A)  In general  A transfer under this subsection shall be valid only for the duration of the quota year during which the transfer is made.  (B)  Following quota year  No transfer under this subsection shall affect the share of the quota allocated to the transferor or transferee for the following quota year. 
 . 
 4.  Repeal of feedstock flexibility program for bioenergy producers Section 9010 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 ( 7 U.S.C. 8110 ) is repealed.
