 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Muslim Brotherhood Terrorist Designation Act of 2021 .
 2.  Sense of Congress  It is the sense of Congress that—  (1) the Muslim Brotherhood meets the criteria for designation as a foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1189 ); and (2)  the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Attorney General and the Secretary of the Treasury, should exercise the Secretary of State’s statutory authority by designating the Muslim Brotherhood as a foreign terrorist organization. 
 3.  Report on designation of the muslim brotherhood as a foreign terrorist organization  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Appropriate congressional committees The term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (A) the  Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate ; (B) the  Committee on Armed Services of the Senate ; (C) the  Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate ; (D) the  Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate ; (E) the  Committee on the Judiciary of the Senate ; (F) the  Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate ; (G) the  Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives ; (H) the  Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives ; (I) the  Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives ; (J) the  Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives ; (K) the  Committee on the Judiciary of the House of Representatives ; and (L) the  Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives . (2)  Intelligence community The term  intelligence community  has the meaning given that term in section 3(4) of the National Security Act of 1947 ( 50 U.S.C. 3003(4) ). (b)  Report  Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the intelligence community, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a detailed report that—  (1) indicates whether the Muslim Brotherhood meets the criteria for designation as a foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1189 ); and (2)  if the Secretary of State determines that the Muslim Brotherhood does not meet the criteria referred to in paragraph (1), includes a detailed justification as to which criteria have not been met.  (c)  Form  The report required under subsection (b) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may include a classified annex, if appropriate. 
