 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Lori Jackson Domestic Violence Survivor Protection Act .
 2. Definitions of  intimate partner  and  misdemeanor crime of domestic violence  expanded Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—  (1)  by inserting before paragraph (32) the following:  (31) The term  covered domestic violence court order  means a court order— (A)  that was issued—  (i)  after a hearing of which such person received actual notice, and at which such person had an opportunity to participate; or  (ii)  in the case of an ex parte order, relative to which notice and opportunity to be heard are provided—  (I)  within the time required by State, tribal, or territorial law; and  (II)  in any event within a reasonable time after the order is issued, sufficient to protect the due process rights of the person;  (B)  that restrains such person from—  (i)  harassing, stalking, or threatening an intimate partner of such person or child of such intimate partner or person, or engaging in other conduct that would place an intimate partner in reasonable fear of bodily injury to the partner or child; or  (ii)  intimidating or dissuading a witness from testifying in court; and  (C)  that—  (i)  includes a finding that such person represents a credible threat to the physical safety of such individual described in subparagraph (B); or  (ii)  by its terms explicitly prohibits the use, attempted use, or threatened use of physical force against such individual described in subparagraph (B) that would reasonably be expected to cause bodily injury.  ;   (2) in paragraph (32), by striking all that follows after The term  intimate partner  and inserting the following:  —  (A)  means, with respect to a person, the spouse of the person, a former spouse of the person, an individual who is a parent of a child of the person, and an individual who cohabitates or has cohabited with the person; and  (B)  includes—  (i)  a dating partner (as defined in section 2266) or former dating partner; and  (ii)  any other person similarly situated to a spouse who is protected by the domestic or family violence laws of the State, local, or tribal jurisdiction in which the injury occurred or where the victim resides.  ; and  (3)  in paragraph (33)(A)—  (A) in clause (i), by inserting after  Federal, State,  the following:  municipal, ; and (B)  in clause (ii)—  (i) by striking  or the threatened  and inserting  the threatened ;  (ii) by inserting  or stalking  after  deadly weapon ; and (iii) by inserting  dating partner (as defined in section 2266),  after  spouse,  each place it appears. 
 3.  Unlawful sale of firearm to a person subject to court order  Section 922(d)(8) of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:  (8)  is subject to a covered domestic violence court order; or  . 
 4.  List of persons subject to a restraining or similar order prohibited from possessing or receiving a firearm expanded  Section 922(g)(8) of title 18, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:  (8)  who is subject to a covered domestic violence court order; or  . 
 5.  Technical and conforming amendments The NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 ( 34 U.S.C. 40902  et seq.) is amended— (1) in section 3(1) ( 34 U.S.C. 40903(1) ), by striking  court order (as described in section 922(g)(8)  and inserting  covered domestic violence court order (as defined in section 921(a) ; and (2) in section 102(b)(1)(C)(v) ( 34 U.S.C. 40912(b)(1)(C)(v) ), by striking  court order described in section 922(g)(8)  and inserting  covered domestic violence court order, as defined in section 921(a) . 
