 1.  Reauthorization and enhancement of Johanna’s Law  (a)  In general Section 317P(d) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 247b–17(d) ) is amended— (1)  in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following:  (D)  Activities under the national campaign under subparagraph (A) shall include public service announcements using traditional or digital media under subparagraph (C) targeted to specific higher-risk populations of women based on race, ethnicity, level of acculturation, and family history, including the African-American and Ashkenazi Jewish populations.  ; and  (2)  by amending paragraph (6) to read as follows:  (6)  Authorization of appropriations  For the purpose of carrying out this subsection, there is authorized to be appropriated $45,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2020 through 2022.   . 
 2.  Demonstration projects regarding outreach and education strategies relating to gynecologic cancer  (a)  In general Section 317P(d) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 247b–17(d) ) is amended by inserting after paragraph (4) the following new paragraph:  (5)  Demonstration projects regarding outreach and education strategies  (A)  In general  (i)  Program  The Secretary may carry out a program to award grants or contracts to public or nonprofit private entities for the purpose of carrying out demonstration projects to test, compare, and evaluate different evidence-based outreach and education strategies to increase the awareness and knowledge of women and health care providers with respect to gynecologic cancers, including with respect to early warning signs, risk factors, prevention, screening, and treatment options. Such strategies shall include efforts directed at women and their families, physicians, nurses, and key health professionals.  (ii)  Science-based resources  In making awards under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall encourage awardees to use science-based resources such as the Inside Knowledge About Gynecologic Cancer education campaign of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  (B)  Preferences in awarding grants or contracts  In making awards under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall give preference to—  (i)  applicants with demonstrated expertise in gynecologic cancer education or treatment or in working with groups of women who are at increased risk of gynecologic cancers; and  (ii)  applicants that, in the demonstration project funded by the grant or contract, will establish linkages between physicians, nurses, and key health professionals, health profession students, hospitals, payers, and State health departments.  (C)  Application  To seek a grant or contract under subparagraph (A), an entity shall submit an application to the Secretary in such form, in such manner, and containing such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this paragraph.  (D)  Certain requirements  In making awards under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall—  (i)  make awards, as practicable, to not fewer than five applicants; and  (ii)  ensure that information provided through demonstration projects under this paragraph is consistent with the best available medical information.  (E)  Report to congress  Not later than 24 months after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report that—  (i)  summarizes the activities of demonstration projects under subparagraph (A);  (ii)  evaluates the extent to which the projects were effective in increasing awareness and knowledge of risk factors and early warning signs in the populations to which the projects were directed; and  (iii)  identifies barriers to early detection and appropriate treatment of such cancers.  .  (b)  Conforming amendment Section 317P(d)(3)(A) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 247b–17(d)(3)(A) ) is amended by inserting  (other than paragraph (5))  after  this section .
