
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Desert Community Lands Act .
  2.  Conveyance for Apple Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area   (a)  Definitions  In this section: 
 (1)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior.  (2)  Town The term  Town  means the town of Apple Valley, California.
 (b)  Conveyance of federal land to town 
 (1)  Conveyance required At the request of the Town, not later than 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the Town, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the surface estate of the approximately 4,630 acres of land generally depicted as  Proposed Conveyance Area  on the map entitled  Conveyance to Town of Apple Valley  and dated June 1, 2015. Such land shall be known and designated as the  Apple Valley Off-Highway Vehicle Recreation Area .  (2)  Existing rights and mineral estate  The conveyance under this subsection— 
 (A)  is subject to valid existing rights; and   (B)  does not include the mineral estate. 
 (c)  Use of conveyed land 
 (1)  In general The land conveyed under subsection (b) may be used by the Town for any public purpose authorized in paragraph (2), consistent with the Act of June 14, 1926 (commonly known as the Recreation and Public Purposes Act;  43 U.S.C. 869 et seq. ).  (2)  Authorized purposes  The purposes of the conveyance under subsection (b) are to allow the Town to use the conveyed land to provide— 
 (A)  a suitable location for the establishment of a centralized off-road vehicle recreation park;   (B)  the public with opportunities for off-road vehicle recreation, including a location for races, competitive events, training, and other commercial services that directly support a centralized off-road vehicle recreation area and Town park; and 
 (C)  a designated area and facilities that would discourage unauthorized use of off-highway vehicles in areas that have been identified by the Federal Government, the State of California, or San Bernardino County as containing environmentally sensitive land.   (3)  Disposal prohibited  The land conveyed under subsection (b) may not be disposed of by the Town without the approval of the Secretary. 

 3.  Conveyance to City of Twentynine Palms, California 
 (a)  Conveyance required At the request of the city of Twentynine Palms, California, not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the city of Twentynine Palms, California, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the surface estate of the land generally depicted as  Proposed Conveyance to Twentynine Palms  on the map entitled  Proposed Conveyance to Twentynine Palms  and dated September 18, 2015.  (b)  Existing rights and mineral estate  The conveyance under this section— 
 (1)  is subject to valid existing rights; and   (2)  does not include the mineral estate. 

 4.  Conveyance to City of Barstow, California 
 (a)  Conveyance required At the request of the city of Barstow, California, not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the city of Barstow, California, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the surface estate of the land generally depicted as  Proposed Conveyance  on the map entitled  Proposed Conveyance to the City of Barstow  and dated January 13, 2017.  (b)  Existing rights and mineral estate  The conveyance under this section— 
 (1)  is subject to valid existing rights; and   (2)  does not include the mineral estate. 

 5.  Conveyance to City of Victorville, California 
 (a)  Conveyance required At the request of the city of Victorville, California, not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Interior shall convey to the city of Victorville, California, without consideration, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the surface estate of the land generally depicted as  Proposed Conveyance  on the map entitled  Proposed Conveyance to the City of Victorville  and dated April 25, 2017.  (b)  Existing rights and mineral estate  The conveyance under this subsection— 
 (1)  is subject to valid existing rights;   (2)  does not include the mineral estate; and 
 (3)  is subject to the reservation of a permanent easement and right of way for flood control, utility, pipeline, or telecommunications facilities located within the strips of land described in the right of way grant from the United States Department of the Interior to Pacific Gas and Electric Company, Serial Number R 06259, dated March 2, 1965, and the easement from J. Harley Long to Pacific Gas and Electric Company, dated February 4, 1957, and recorded in Book 4192, Official Records at page 42, San Bernardino County Records.   These easements include the right, at any time and from time to time, to construct, reconstruct, maintain, operate, replace, remove, repair, renew, and enlarge facilities for public utility purposes, the right to trim and cut down trees and brush that the public utility may deem to be a hazard to its facilities, and the requirement that the strips of land be kept open and free of buildings, structures, and wells of any kind. 
 