 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Financial Exploitation Prevention Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Redemption of certain securities postponed  (a)  In general Section 22 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 ( 15 U.S.C. 80a–22 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (h)  Redemption of certain securities postponed  (1)  In general  Notwithstanding subsection (e), a registered open-end investment company or a transfer agent acting on behalf of such company may postpone the date of payment or satisfaction upon redemption of any redeemable security in accordance with its terms for more than seven days after the tender of such security to such company or its agent designated for that purpose for redemption if such company or agent reasonably believes that such redemption is requested through the financial exploitation of a security holder who is a specified adult.  (2)  Duration  (A)  In general  Except as provided in subparagraphs (B) and (C), a registered open-end investment company or a transfer agent acting on behalf of such company may postpone the date of payment or satisfaction upon redemption of a redeemable security under paragraph (1) for a period of not more than 15 business days.  (B)  Extension upon determination of exploitation  The period described in subparagraph (A) may be extended by an additional 10 business days if the registered open-end investment company or a transfer agent acting on behalf of such company determines through an internal review that the redemption described in such subparagraph is requested through the financial exploitation of a security holder who is a specified adult.  (C)  Extension by government  A State regulator, administrative agency of competent jurisdiction, or court of competent jurisdiction may extend the period described in subparagraph (A).   (3)  Specified adult defined In this subsection, the term  specified adult  means— (A)  an individual age 65 or older; or  (B)  an individual age 18 or older who a registered open-end investment company or a transfer agent acting on behalf of such company reasonably believes has a mental or physical impairment that renders the individual unable to protect his or her own interests.  .  (b)  Recommendations  (1)  In general Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Securities and Exchange Commission, in consultation with the entities specified in paragraph (2), shall submit to Congress a report that includes recommendations regarding the regulatory and legislative changes necessary to address the financial exploitation of security holders who are specified adults (as defined in subsection (h)(3) of section 22 of the Investment Company Act of 1940 ( 15 U.S.C. 80a–22 ), as added by this section). (2)  Consultation  The entities specified in this paragraph are as follows:  (A)  The Commodity Futures Trading Commission.  (B)  The Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.  (C)  The Financial Industry Regulatory Authority.  (D)  The North American Securities Administrators Association.  (E)  The Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System.  (F)  The Comptroller of the Currency.  (G)  The Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation. 
