 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Department of Veterans Affairs Veterans’ and Caregivers’ COVID–19 Immunizations Now Expanded Act of 2021  or the  VA VACCINE Act of 2021 .
 2.  Authority of Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish COVID–19 vaccines to certain individuals  (a)  In general  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may furnish a COVID–19 vaccine to a covered individual during the COVID–19 public health emergency.  (b)  Vaccines furnished abroad In the case of an individual who is a covered individual by reason of subsection (d)(2)(B), the Secretary may furnish a COVID–19 vaccine, in a geographic location other than a State, to such individual under subsection (a) regardless of whether the Secretary determines that such vaccine is needed for the treatment of a service-connected disability of the veteran or as part of a rehabilitation program under  chapter 31  of title 38, United States Code. (c)  Veteran and accompanying caregiver priority  In furnishing COVID–19 vaccines, the Secretary shall—  (1)  prioritize the vaccination of veterans who are enrolled in the patient enrollment system of the Department of Veterans Affairs under section 1705 of title 38, United States Code, veterans who fail to so enroll but receive hospital care and medical services pursuant to subsection (c)(2) of such section, and accompanying caregivers over the vaccination of covered individuals under this section not otherwise described in this paragraph; and  (2)  only furnish such vaccines to covered individuals under this section to the extent that such vaccines are available.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  accompanying caregiver  means a caregiver described in subparagraph (C), (D), or (E) of paragraph (2) who is accompanying a veteran as described in subsection (c)(1). (2) The term  covered individual  means any of the following: (A)  A veteran who is not eligible to enroll in the patient enrollment system of the Department of Veterans Affairs under section 1705 of title 38, United States Code.  (B)  A veteran who is eligible for care under section 1724 of such title.  (C)  A family caregiver who is approved as a provider of personal care services for an eligible veteran under the program of comprehensive assistance for family caregivers under section 1720G(a) of such title.  (D)  A caregiver of a covered veteran participating in the program of general caregiver support services under section 1720G(b) of such title.  (E)  A caregiver of a veteran participating in the Medical Foster Home Program, Bowel and Bladder Program, Home Based Primary Care Program, or Veteran Directed Care Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs.  (3) The term  COVID–19  means the Coronavirus disease 2019. (4) The term  COVID–19 public health emergency  means the public health emergency declared by the Secretary of Health and Human Services on January 27, 2020, with respect to the Coronavirus disease 2019. (5) The term  State  has the meaning given that term section 101 of title 38, United States Code.
