 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Marine Access and State Transparency  or the  MAST Act  .
 2.  Congressional authorization of declarations of national monuments and restrictions on public use  (a)  Declarations of national monuments  Section 320301 of title 54, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subsection (a), by striking  The President may  and inserting After obtaining congressional approval of a proposed national monument and certifying compliance with the  National Environmental Policy Act of 1969  ( 42 U.S.C. 4321  et seq.) with respect to the proposed national monument, and subject to subsection (e), the President may; and (2)  by adding at the end the following:  (e)  Requirements for declarations of marine national monuments  (1)  Requirements  The President may not declare any area of the exclusive economic zone to be a national monument unless—  (A)  such declaration is specifically authorized by an Act of Congress;  (B)  the President has submitted a proposal to make such declaration to the Governor of each State, and of each territory, any part of which is located within 200 nautical miles of that area;  (C)  each such Governor submits to the President notice that the legislature of that State or territory has approved the proposal; and  (D)  the declaration is substantially the same as the proposal.  (2)  Exclusive economic zone defined In this subsection the term  exclusive economic zone  means the zone established by Proclamation Numbered 5030, dated March 10, 1983. .  (b)  Restrictions on public use  Chapter 3203  of title 54, United States Code, is amended— (1)  by adding at the end the following:  320304.  Restrictions on public use  The Secretary of the Interior, and the Secretary of Commerce with respect to any area of the exclusive economic zone (as defined in section 320301(e)) designated as a national monument, shall not implement any restrictions on the public use of a national monument until the expiration of an appropriate review period (as determined by such Secretary) providing for public input and congressional approval. 
 ; and  (2)  in the analysis at the beginning of the chapter, by adding at the end the following:  320304. Restrictions on public use.  . 
