 1.  Energy efficiency materials pilot program  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Applicant The term  applicant  means a nonprofit organization that applies for a grant under this section. (2)  Energy efficiency material  (A)  In general The term  energy efficiency material  means a material (including a product, equipment, or system) the installation of which results in a reduction in use of energy or fuel. (B)  Inclusions The term  energy efficiency material  includes— (i)  a roof or lighting system or component of the system;  (ii)  a window;  (iii)  a door, including a security door;  (iv)  a heating, ventilation, or air conditioning system or component of the system (including insulation and wiring and plumbing improvements needed to serve a more efficient system); and  (v)  a renewable energy generation or heating system, including a solar, photovoltaic, wind, geothermal, or biomass (including wood pellet) system or component of the system.  (3)  Nonprofit building  (A)  In general The term  nonprofit building  means a building operated and owned by a nonprofit organization. (B)  Inclusions The term  nonprofit building  includes a building described in subparagraph (A) that is— (i)  a hospital;  (ii)  a youth center;  (iii)  a school;  (iv)  a social-welfare program facility;  (v)  a facility of a faith-based organization; or  (vi)  any other nonresidential and noncommercial structure.  (4)  Nonprofit organization The term  nonprofit organization  means an organization that is described in  section 501(c)(3)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code. (5)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Energy. (b)  Establishment  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a pilot program to award grants to nonprofit organizations to purchase energy efficiency materials to install in nonprofit buildings.  (c)  Grants  (1)  Application  The Secretary may award a grant under the pilot program established under subsection (b) if an applicant submits to the Secretary an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary may prescribe.  (2)  Criteria for grant  In determining whether to award a grant under the pilot program established under subsection (b), the Secretary shall apply performance-based criteria, which shall give priority to applicants based on—  (A)  the energy savings expected to be achieved;  (B)  the cost-effectiveness of the use of the energy efficiency materials that are proposed to be purchased;  (C)  an effective plan for evaluation, measurement, and verification of energy savings; and  (D)  the financial need of the applicant.  (3)  Limitation on individual grant amount  Each grant awarded under this section shall not exceed $200,000.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026, to remain available until expended. 
