 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Armed Services Always Paid Act  or the  ASAP Act .
 2.  Continuity of military pay and allowances during periods of lapsed appropriations  (a)  In general  Chapter 19  of title 37, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 1016.  Continuity of pay and allowances during periods of lapsed appropriations  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  military personnel accounts  mean the military personnel, reserve personnel, and National Guard personnel accounts of the Department of Defense, generally title I of an annual Department of Defense appropriations Act, and the corresponding accounts for the Department of Homeland Security used to provide pay and allowances for members of the Coast Guard. (2) The term  pay and allowances  means basic pay, bonuses and special pay, allowances and any other forms of compensation available for members of the armed forces under this title or otherwise paid from the military personnel accounts. (3) The term  period of lapsed appropriations , when used with respect to members of the armed forces, means any period during which appropriations are not available due to the absence of the timely enactment of any Act or joint resolution (including any Act or joint resolution making continuing appropriations) appropriating funds for the payment of the pay and allowances of members of the armed forces. (b)  Appropriation of funds To continue payment of pay and allowances  For any period of lapsed appropriations, there are appropriated, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, to the Secretary of Defense (and the Secretary of Homeland Security in the case of the Coast Guard) to allow the Secretary of Defense (and the Secretary of Homeland Security in the case of the Coast Guard) to continue to provide pay and allowances (without interruption) to members of the armed forces.  (c)  Limitation on amounts paid  This section only authorizes the expenditure of funds during a period of lapsed appropriations for the pay and allowances of a member of the armed forces at a rate that is equal to the rate in effect for that member immediately before the start of the period of lapsed appropriations. The rate for a member may neither exceed the rate in effect immediately before the start of the period of lapsed appropriations nor be less than that rate, unless reduced by disciplinary action under the Uniform Code of Military Justice.  (d)  Relation to other pay authorities  This section shall not be construed to affect the entitlement of a member of the armed forces to an amount of pay and allowances that exceeds the amount of pay and allowances authorized to be paid under this section and to which the member becomes entitled under other applicable provisions of law.  (e)  Effect of end of period of lapsed appropriations  Expenditures made for any fiscal year pursuant to this section shall be charged to the applicable appropriation, fund, or authorization whenever the regular appropriation bill (or other bill or joint resolution making continuing appropriations through the end of the fiscal year) becomes law. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:  1016. Continuity of pay and allowances during periods of lapsed appropriations.  . 
