
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Vaccines for Veterans Act . 
  2.  COVID–19 vaccines for expanded population of veterans during covered emergency period   (a)  COVID–19 vaccines   (1)  In general  Subject to the availability of appropriations, during a covered emergency period, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs may furnish the COVID–19 vaccine to any veteran who was discharged from service in the Armed Forces under honorable conditions without regard to whether the veteran is enrolled in the annual patient enrollment system under section 1705 of title 38, United States Code, or otherwise eligible to receive health care services under chapter 17 of such title. 
 (2)  State guidelines  In furnishing COVID–19 vaccines pursuant to paragraph (1), each director of a Department of Veterans Affairs health care facility may determine priorities among veterans eligible to receive COVID–19 vaccines in accordance with guidelines established by the State in which the facility is located.   (b)  Coordination   (1)  In general  In carrying out this section, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall coordinate with the entities described in paragraph (2), as appropriate, to determine— 
 (A)  whether an individual seeking to receive a COVID–19 vaccine pursuant this section meets the requirements of subsection (a)(1); and   (B)  the relevant prioritization for such individual, in accordance with subsection (a)(2). 
 (2)  Coordinating entities  The entities described in this paragraph are the following:   (A)  The Secretary of Defense. 
 (B)  The Secretary of Health and Human Services.   (C)  The Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. 
 (D)  The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency.   (E)  The heads of State departments of health (or related agencies). 
 (F)  Any other Federal agency determined relevant by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.   (c)  Definitions  In this section: 
 (1) The term  covered emergency period  means a period beginning on the date on which a President declares a national emergency under the National Emergencies Act ( 50 U.S.C. 1601  et seq.) with respect to the coronavirus disease 2019 (COVID–19) and ending on the date that is 30 days after the date on which such national emergency declaration terminates.  (2) The term  covered medical condition  means a medical condition determined by the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to be high risk with respect to COVID–19.
 (3) The term  COVID–19 vaccine  means any vaccine approved or authorized by the Commissioner of Food and Drugs for COVID–19.  (4) The term  State  includes each of the several States, the District of Columbia, each territory or possession of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe.

