 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Making Advances Kinetic Education, Research, and Skills Act  or the  MAKERS Act .
 2.  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1)  Maker communities can be found in both rural and urban communities throughout the Nation.  (2)  Making has been shown to engage and motivate children and adults in STEM disciplines.  (3)  Informal education and makerspaces promote skills that employers desire, such as technical skills, problem-solving skills, teamwork, and analytical skills.  (4)  Studies have shown that underrepresented populations often have better successes in informal and out-of-school STEM than in formal STEM programs.  (5)  Some studies have shown that makerspaces help to build not only technical hard skills but also collaboration and other soft skills that employers desire. 
 3.  Purpose  The purpose of this Act is to encourage the formation and study of makerspaces to—  (1)  engage populations within community colleges and community environments in STEM programs;  (2)  develop desirable STEM technical and other skills including collaboration; and  (3)  build a STEM-capable workforce. 
 4.  Definitions  In this Act, the following definitions apply:  (1)  Historically Black college or university The term “historically Black college or university” has the meaning given the term “part B institution” under section 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1061 ). (2)  Makerspace The term  makerspace  means a community space that— (A)  provides access to tools, technology, and knowledge for learners and entrepreneurs;  (B)  results in the prototyping or creation of physical goods, interdisciplinary learning, and educational innovation; and  (C)  supports the development of educational opportunities for personal growth, workforce training, and early stage business ventures.  (3)  Minority-serving institution The term “minority-serving institution” means an institution listed in section 371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1067q(a) ). (4)  Rural community The term  rural community  has the meaning given the term  rural area  in section 520 of the Housing Act of 1949 ( 42 U.S.C. 1490 ). (5)  STEM The term  STEM  means the subjects of science, technology, engineering, and mathematics. (6)  Workforce development component The term  workforce development component  means— (A)  an economic development board or corporation, including a State board or local workforce board;  (B)  an internship program;  (C)  a certificate program;  (D)  employers or an employer or industry partnership representing multiple employers;  (E)  a community-based organization; or  (F)  any other program considered acceptable by the Director of the National Science Foundation. 
 5.  Grant program for research and capacity building of makerspaces  (a)  Establishment  The Director of the National Science Foundation shall award grants on a competitive basis to institutions of higher education, or consortia of such institutions, to support the research and development of makerspaces to assist in the formation of a STEM-capable workforce.  (b)  Use of funds  A grant awarded under this section may be used for—  (1)  research on the effectiveness of makerspaces in engaging students and the community in STEM skills and in teaching and learning, and the development, compilation, and dissemination of best practices on the use of makerspaces for STEM learning and workforce preparedness;  (2)  equipment to achieve the purpose under paragraph (1); and  (3)  any other activities the Director considers appropriate.  (c)  Priority  In selecting grant recipients under this section, the Director shall give priority to applicants that—  (1)  apply in partnership with 1 or more entities that are—  (A)  a workforce development component;  (B) a high-need local education agency as described in section 9(b)(3) of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 2002 ( 42 U.S.C. 1862n(b)(3) ); or (C)  an independent nonprofit or academic makerspace;  (2)  consist of 1 or more entities that are—  (A)  a community college; or  (B)  a historically Black college or university or other minority-serving institution of higher education; or  (3)  apply in partnership with or consist of an entity that is—  (A)  described in paragraph (1) or (2); and  (B)  operates within a rural community.  (d)  Limitation  Funds provided through a grant under this section may not be used for the construction of a physical building or facility to hold a makerspace unless the Director determines that such construction is necessary for reasons of safety or the use of relevant equipment.  (e)  Technical assistance  The Director may provide to entities receiving a grant or entities seeking such a grant under this section with technical assistance. 
