
 1.  Findings  The Congress finds the following:   (1)  At 9:44 A.M., on August 26, 2021, the Pentagon confirmed that one explosion occurred at the Hamid Karzai International Airport. 
 (2)  The explosion was confirmed to be a suicide bombing by ISIS–K terrorist group.   (3)  Estimates as high as 200 deaths were reported, including 13 servicemembers of the United States, as well as hundreds more wounded. 
 (4)  The attack on Thursday, August 26, 2021, at the Hamid Karzai International Airport in Kabul, Afghanistan, killed 13 United States servicemembers, making it the deadliest single day of the war for the United States in more than a decade.   (5)  The American servicemembers went above and beyond the call of duty to protect citizens of the United States and our allies to ensure they are brought to safety in an extremely dangerous situation as the Taliban regained control over Afghanistan. 
 (6)  The American servicemembers exemplified extreme bravery and valor against armed enemy combatants.   (7)  The American servicemembers dedicated their lives and their heroism deserves great honor. 
 (8)  Maxton Soviak, Kareem Nikoui, David Espinoza, Rylee McCollum, Jared Schmitz, Hunter Lopez, Taylor Hoover, Daegan William-Tyeler Page, Nicole Gee, Humberto Sanchez, Dylan Merola, Johanny Rosario Pichardo, and Ryan Knauss have been identified as the 13 servicemembers who died from the blast while stationed at Hamid Karzai International Airport.  
  2.  Congressional Gold Medals   (a)  Presentations authorized  The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the posthumous presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a single gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration to the 13 servicemembers who perished in Afghanistan, on August 26, 2021. 
 (b)  Design and striking For the purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as the  Secretary ) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.  (c)  Smithsonian institution   (1)  In general  Following the award of the gold medal under subsection (a), the gold medal shall be given to the Smithsonian Institution, where it shall be available for display as appropriate and made available for research. 
 (2)  Sense of Congress  It is the sense of Congress that the Smithsonian Institution shall make the gold medal received under paragraph (1) available for display outside of the District of Columbia at times, particularly at other locations associated with the 13 servicemembers who perished in Afghanistan on August 26, 2021. 
  3.  Duplicate medals  The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 2 at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses. 

 4.  Status of medals 
 (a)  National medals The medal struck pursuant to this Act is a national medal for purposes of  chapter 51  of title 31, United States Code.  (b)  Numismatic items  For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items. 

 5.  Authority to use fund amounts; proceeds of sale 
 (a)  Authority To use fund amounts  There is authorized to be charged against the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund such amounts as may be necessary to pay for the costs of the medals struck pursuant to this Act.   (b)  Proceeds of sale  The amounts received from the sale of duplicate bronze medals authorized under section 3 shall be deposited into the United States Mint Public Enterprise Fund. 

 6.  Determination of Budgetary Effects The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled  Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation  for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
 