 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Take Your Shot Act .
 2.  National incentive program  (a)  In general The Secretary of the Treasury shall establish a national incentive program (in this section referred to as the  Program ) to provide 100 cash prizes to certain individuals who have received at least 1 COVID–19 vaccination approved by, or authorized for emergency use by, the Food and Drug Administration. (b)  Effective date  The Secretary shall establish the Program not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.  (c)  Eligibility for the Program  (1)  In general  Except as provided in paragraph (2), to be eligible for a prize under the Program, an individual shall—  (A)  be age 18 or older on the date of enactment of this Act;  (B)  have a valid—  (i)  Social Security number; or  (ii)  Individual Taxpayer Identification Number; and  (C)  not have previously been selected as a winner of a prize under this section.  (2)  Exceptions  Federal elected officials and Cabinet members are ineligible to receive a prize under the Program.  (d)  Selection of prize winners  Of the individuals eligible to receive a prize under subsection (c), the Secretary shall select at random individuals to win a prize under this section, subject to the verification described in subsection (e)(1).  (e)  Awarding of prizes  (1)  Verification  The Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Health and Human Services to determine whether each individual selected under subsection (d) has received at least 1 COVID–19 vaccination approved by, or authorized for emergency use by, the Food and Drug Administration. The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall confirm the vaccination status of a winner of a prize under the Program. The confirmation in the preceding sentence may be carried out with the assistance of a State or local department of health, if necessary. The Secretary shall verify each such individual not later than 90 days after the establishment of the Program.  (2)  Award  If the Secretary verifies the required vaccination status of an individual selected under subsection (d), the Secretary shall award a prize described in subsection (f) to such individual.   (3)  Prohibition on public disclosure  Personally identifying information of a winner of a prize under the Program shall not be publicly disclosed by Federal agencies. Only the county and State of such winner shall be made public by the Secretary.  (4)  Rule of construction  Nothing in this Act shall be construed to authorize the Secretary of Health and Human Services to establish a national COVID–19 vaccine registry for the purposes of determining eligibility for a prize under the Program.  (f)  Prizes  A winner of a prize under this section shall receive $1,000,000 not later than 30 days after the verification described in subsection (e)(1). Prize money shall not be considered Federal taxable income.  (g)  Definition of Secretary Except as otherwise provided, in this section, the term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Treasury.  (h)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 for prizes under the Program. 
