 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Critical Mineral Access Act . 
 2.  Amendments to Better Utilization of Investments Leading to Development Act of 2018 Section 1412(b) of the Better Utilization of Investments Leading to Development Act of 2018 ( 22 U.S.C. 9612(b) ) is amended— (1) by striking  The purpose  and inserting the following:  (1)  In general  The purpose  ;  (2) by striking  shall be to  and inserting the following:  shall be—  (A)  to  ;  (3) by striking  the United States.  and inserting the following:  the United States; and  (B)  to provide support under title II in high-income economy countries for projects involving development or processing of covered critical materials if such support furthers the national security interests of the United States.  ;  (4) by striking  In carrying out  and inserting the following:  (2)  Consideration of certain criteria  In carrying out  ; and  (5)  by adding at the end the following:  (3)  Definitions  In paragraph (1)(B):  (A)  Covered critical materials  (i)  In general The term  covered critical materials  means aluminum (bauxite), antimony, arsenic, barite, beryllium, bismuth, cesium, chromium, cobalt, fluorspar, gallium, germanium, graphite (natural), hafnium, helium, indium, lithium, magnesium, manganese, niobium, platinum group metals, potash, the rare earth elements group, rhenium, rubidium, scandium, strontium, tantalum, tellurium, tin, titanium, tungsten, uranium, vanadium, and zirconium. (ii)  Rare earth elements group In clause (i), the term  rare earth elements group  means lanthanum, cerium, praseodymium, neodymium, promethium, samarium, europium, gadolinium, terbium, dysprosium, holmium, erbium, thulium, ytterbium, lutetium, scandium, yttrium. (B)  High-income economy country The term  high-income economy country  means a country with a high-income economy, as defined by the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development and the International Development Association (collectively referred to as the  World Bank ). . 
