 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  End Pensions In Congress Act  or the  EPIC Act .
 2.  Amendments relating to the Civil Service Retirement System  (a)  In general Subchapter III of  chapter 83  of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 8335  the following: 8335a.  Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of Congress  (a)  In general  Notwithstanding any other provision of this subchapter and subject to subsection (f), effective as of the date of enactment of this section—  (1)  a Member shall not be subject to this subchapter for any further period of time; and  (2)  no further Government contributions or deductions from basic pay may be made with respect to such Member for deposit in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Fund.  (b)  Prior rights not affected  Nothing in subsection (a) shall be considered to nullify, modify, or otherwise affect any right, entitlement, or benefit under this subchapter with respect to any Member covering any period prior to the date of enactment of this section.  (c)  Right To participate in Thrift Savings Plan not affected  Nothing in subsection (a) shall affect the eligibility of a Member to participate in the Thrift Savings Plan in accordance with otherwise applicable provisions of law.  (d)  Regulations  Any regulations necessary to carry out this section may—  (1)  except with respect to matters under paragraph (2), be prescribed by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management; and  (2)  with respect to matters relating to the Thrift Savings Plan, be prescribed by the Executive Director (as defined by section 8401(13)).  (e)  Exclusion For purposes of this section, the term  Member  does not include the Vice President. (f)  Opt-In  Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this section, a Member covered by this subchapter as of such date of enactment may elect, by giving notice in writing to the official by whom such Member is paid, to remain subject to this subchapter. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections at the beginning of  chapter 83  of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to  section 8335  the following: 8335a. Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of Congress.  . 
 3.  Amendments relating to the Federal Employees Retirement System  (a)  In general Subchapter II of  chapter 84  of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 8425  the following: 8425a.  Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of Congress  (a)  In general  Notwithstanding any other provision of this chapter, effective as of the date of enactment of this section—  (1)  subject to subsection (f), in the case of an individual who first becomes a Member before such date of enactment—  (A)  such Member shall not be subject to this chapter for any further period of time after such date of enactment; and  (B)  no further Government contributions or deductions from basic pay may be made with respect to such Member for deposit in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Fund; and  (2)  in the case of an individual who first becomes a Member on or after such date of enactment—  (A)  such Member shall not be subject to this chapter; and  (B)  no Government contributions or deductions from basic pay may be made with respect to such Member for deposit in the Treasury of the United States to the credit of the Fund.  (b)  Prior rights not affected  Nothing in subsection (a) shall be considered to nullify, modify, or otherwise affect any right, entitlement, or benefit under this chapter with respect to any Member covering any period prior to the date of enactment of this section.  (c)  Right To participate in Thrift Savings Plan not affected  Nothing in subsection (a) or (b) shall affect the eligibility of a Member to participate in the Thrift Savings Plan in accordance with otherwise applicable provisions of law.  (d)  Regulations  (1)  In general  Any regulations necessary to carry out this section may—  (A)  except with respect to matters under subparagraph (B), be prescribed by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management; and  (B)  with respect to matters relating to the Thrift Savings Plan, be prescribed by the Executive Director (as defined by section 8401(13)).  (2)  Refunds  Notwithstanding subsection (b), the regulations under paragraph (1)(A) shall, in the case of a Member who has not completed at least 5 years of civilian service as of the date of enactment of this section, provide that the lump-sum credit shall be payable to such Member to the same extent and in the same manner as if such Member satisfied paragraphs (1) through (4) of section 8424(a) as of such date of enactment.  (e)  Exclusions For purposes of this section, the term  Member  does not include the Vice President. (f)  Opt-In for Members  Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this section, a Member covered by this chapter as of such date may elect, by giving notice in writing to the official by whom such Member is paid, to remain subject to this chapter. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections at the beginning of  chapter 84  of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to  section 8425  the following: 8425a. Termination of further retirement coverage of Members of Congress.  . 
