
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Driftless Area Landscape Conservation Initiative Act  or the  DALCI Act . 
  2.  Driftless Area Landscape Conservation Initiative Subchapter A of chapter 4 of subtitle D of title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 ( 16 U.S.C. 3839aa ) is amended by adding at the end the following:

 1240H–1.  Driftless Area Landscape Conservation Initiative 
 (a)  Establishment  The Secretary shall establish a Driftless Area Landscape Conservation Initiative to reduce erosion and restore cold water stream corridors in the Driftless Area of the Midwestern United States, with a focus on climate-smart agriculture, carbon sequestration, soil health, and ecological restoration.   (b)  Initiative elements   (1)  In general  In carrying out the initiative established under this section, the Secretary shall provide assistance to producers to implement practices to— 
 (A)  manage working lands for year-round ground cover to rebuild soil, sequester carbon, improve water quality, increase water holding capacity of soil, reduce soil erosion, and mitigate flooding and other climate impacts;   (B)  manage woodlands for increased biodiversity to improve the health of the woods to provide habitat and sequester carbon; 
 (C)  restore prairies and manage grasslands, oak savannas, and barrens to expand habitat and sequester carbon; and   (D)  restore cold water streams, by reducing stream bank erosion and threats of flooding while improving trout habitat. 
 (2)  Partnerships  In carrying out the initiative established under this section, the Secretary shall provide assistance to grassroots partnerships to educate landowners and operators on the benefits of climate-smart agriculture, soil health, and holistic grazing, with a focus on equity.   (3)  Types of assistance  The Secretary may provide assistance under this section in the form of financial assistance, technical assistance, and payments for the conveyance of easements to the Secretary, under such terms as the Secretary may establish. 
 (c)  Funding  Of the funds made available to carry out this subchapter, the Secretary shall carry out this section using $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026. 
 . 
 