 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Flag Code Modernization Act of 2021 .
 2.  Flag practices  (a)  Display and use of flag by civilians Section 5 of title 4, United States Code, is amended by striking  such civilians or civilian groups or organizations  and inserting  such civilians, civilian groups, organizations, or corporations .  (b)  Time and occasions for display Section 6(d) of title 4, United States Code, is amended by striking  December 25;  and inserting  December 25; Presidents Day, third Monday in February; Thomas Jefferson’s Birthday, April 13; Loyalty Day–Law Day USA, May 1; National Maritime Day, May 22; Flag Week, week of June 14; Aviation Day, August 19; Patriot Day (half-staff), September 11; POW/MIA Recognition Day, third Friday in September; American Gold Star Mother’s Day, last Sunday in September; Pearl Harbor Day (half-staff), December 7; . (c)  Position and manner of display  Section 7 of title 4, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subsection (f), by striking  flag’s right.  and inserting  flag’s right. The flags should be of approximately equal size or the flag of the United States shall be the larger flag. ; and (2) in subsection (g), by striking  peace.  and inserting  peace. The flags of such nations shall be displayed to the observer’s right and in alphabetical order from left to right. .  (d)  Respect for flag  Section 8 of title 4, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subsection (c), by striking  should never be carried flat or horizontally, but always aloft and free.  and inserting  shall be displayed aloft and free. Unless such flag may be carried flat or horizontally for a patriotic purpose, including if the flag is too large to be displayed aloft and free. ;  (2) in subsection (i), by striking  It should not be embroidered on such articles as cushions or handkerchiefs and the like, printed or otherwise impressed on paper napkins or boxes or anything that is designed for temporary use and discard. ; and  (3) in subsection (j), by striking  policemen  and inserting  policemen, postal workers .  (e)  Effective date  The amendments made by ths section shall take effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.  
