 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Supporting Affordable and Reliable Energy in Developing Countries Act of 2021 .
 2.  Prohibition on implementation of climate finance plans  (a)  Prohibition  (1)  Federal agency; Government corporation  No Federal agency or Government corporation may implement a climate finance plan that would prohibit, or have the effect of prohibiting, the financing of a covered project.  (2)  United States position in international financial institutions  The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director at each international financial institution to use the voice and vote of the United States to oppose the provision by the institution of any form of support for the implementation of a climate finance plan described in paragraph (1).  (b)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Climate finance plan The term  climate finance plan  means a climate finance plan, as described in Executive Order 14008 (86 Fed. Reg. 7619). (2)  Covered project The term  covered project  means a project to construct a facility that— (A)  uses a fossil fuel or nuclear reaction as a source of energy to generate electricity; and  (B)  would—  (i)  provide affordable electricity in a developing country;  (ii)  increase the export of clean energy technologies, including carbon capture, utilization, and storage, wind, solar, or nuclear technologies, from the United States or any domestic resource with a lower lifecycle emissions rate than large scale global alternatives;  (iii)  not put the United States at a competitive disadvantage with the People’s Republic of China or another country that continues to encourage the construction of facilities that use a fossil fuel or nuclear reaction as a source of energy to generate electricity; or  (iv)  prevent the loss of jobs in the United States.  (3)  Federal agency The term  Federal agency  has the meaning given the term  agency  in section 551 of title 5, United States Code. (4)  Fossil fuel The term  fossil fuel  means natural gas, petroleum, coal, or any form of solid, liquid, or gaseous fuel derived from natural gas, petroleum, coal which may be used to create useful heat. (5)  Government corporation The term  Government corporation  has the meaning given that term in section 103 of title 5, United States Code. (6)  International financial institution The term  international financial institution  has the meaning given the term in section 1701(c)(2) of the International Financial Institutions Act.
