 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Championing Uncensored Bandwidth Access Act of 2021  or the  CUBA Act of 2021 .
 2.  Sense of Congress  It is the sense of Congress that the United States should—  (1)  support the ability of the people of Cuba to maintain their freedom to access information online; and  (2)  focus on investments in technologies that facilitate the unrestricted exchange of information in Cuba in anticipation of any future efforts by the Communist Party of Cuba to—  (A)  suppress internet access;  (B)  increase online censorship; or  (C)  inhibit online communication and content-sharing by the people of Cuba. 
 3.  Access to internet service for Cuban people  (a)  In general  The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, the Director of National Intelligence, and the Commissioner of the Federal Communications Commission, shall develop and implement a strategy to establish internet resiliency and deliver internet access in Cuba, which shall include the following:  (1)  Expanding telecommunications technologies for accessing internet, television, live streams, and network broadcasting and communications in Cuba.  (2)  Assisting efforts to overcome attempts by the Communist Party of Cuba to disrupt internet access and block online content in Cuba.  (b)  Report  (1)  In general  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives, the majority leader of the Senate, the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report that includes the following:  (A)  A description of actions taken to deploy telecommunications, internet, and other communications services to Cuba.  (B)  Whether there are gaps in the capabilities of the Secretary to provide such services to Cuba.  (C)  Whether additional resources are needed to increase access to such services in Cuba.  (2)  Form  The report required under paragraph (1) shall be submitted in an unclassified form but may contain a classified annex. 
