
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Ceasing Undeserved Relief Benefits for Debt Collectors Act for 2021  or the  CURB Debt Collectors Act .
  2.  Debt collectors ineligible for paycheck protection program loans   (a)  In general Section 7(a) of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 636(a) ), as amended by the Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and Venues Act ( Public Law 116–260 ), is amended—
 (1)  in paragraph (36), by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:    (W)  Debt collectors ineligible  An individual or entity shall be ineligible to receive a covered loan if— 
 (i) such individual or entity is a debt collector (as defined in section 803 of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act ( 15 U.S.C. 1692a ));  (ii) such individual or entity has been found to have violated of any provision of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act ( 15 U.S.C. 1692  et seq.) pursuant to—
 (I) an adjudication by a Federal agency or an action brought in a court of competent jurisdiction if such adjudication or action constitutes an exercise of enforcement authority under section 814 of such Act ( 15 U.S.C. 1692l ); or  (II)  any other action brought in a court of competent jurisdiction; 
 (iii)  the adjudication or action described in clause (ii) was not resolved by a settlement agreement or consent decree that remains in effect as of the date on which such individual or entity applies for the covered loan if the adjudication or action was brought by a Federal agency; and   (iv)  a final order or final judgment against such individual or entity pursuant to an adjudication or action described in clause (ii), as appropriate— 
 (I)  is issued or entered, as appropriate, during the 10-year period ending on the date on which such individual or entity applies for the covered loan;   (II)  has not been overturned; and 
 (III)  is no longer subject to appeal.  ; and   (2)  in paragraph (37)(A)(iv)(III)— 
 (A) in item (dd), by striking  or  at the end;  (B) in item (ee), by striking  ; and  and inserting  ; or  ; and
 (C)  by adding at the end the following new item:    (ff)  an individual or entity that, under subparagraph (W) of paragraph (36), is ineligible for a covered loan under such paragraph; and  . 
 (b)  Applicability  The amendments made by subsection (a) shall not apply with respect to any loan made prior to date of the enactment of this Act. 
 