
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Service Education Reallocation for Vacant Elected offices Act of 2021  or the  SERVE Act of 2021 .
  2.  Allocation of authority for nominations to the service academies in the event of the death, resignation, or expulsion from office of a Member of Congress   (a)  United States Military Academy   (1)  In general  Chapter 753  of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 7442  the following new section:

 7442a.  Cadets: nomination in event of death, resignation, or expulsion from office of Member of Congress otherwise authorized to nominate 
 (a)  Senators  In the event a Senator does not submit nominations for cadets for an academic year in accordance with section 7442(a)(3) of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Senator's successor as Senator occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for cadets for the academic year, the nominations for cadets otherwise authorized to be made by the Senator pursuant to such section shall be made instead by the other Senator from the State concerned.   (b)  Representatives  In the event a Representative from a State does not submit nominations for cadets for an academic year in accordance with section 7442(a)(4) of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Representative's successor as Representative occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for cadets for the academic year, the nominations for cadets otherwise authorized to be made by the Representative pursuant to such section shall be made instead by the Senators from the State of the congressional district concerned, with such nominations divided equally among such Senators and any remainder going to the senior Senator from the State. 
 (c)  Construction of authority  Any nomination for cadets made by a Member pursuant to this section is not a reallocation of a nomination. Such nominations are made in lieu of a Member that does not submit nominations for cadets for an academic year in accordance with section 7442 of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Member’s successor occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for cadets for the academic year. 
 .   (2)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 753 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7442 the following new item: 


 7442a. Cadets: nomination in event of death, resignation, or expulsion from office of Member of Congress otherwise authorized to nominate.  . 
 (b)  United States Naval Academy 
 (1)  In general  Chapter 853  of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 8454  the following new section:   8454a.  Midshipmen: nomination in event of death, resignation, or expulsion from office of Member of Congress otherwise authorized to nominate   (a)  Senators  In the event a Senator does not submit nominations for midshipmen for an academic year in accordance with section 8454(a)(3) of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Senator's successor as Senator occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for midshipmen for the academic year, the nominations for midshipmen otherwise authorized to be made by the Senator pursuant to such section shall be made instead by the other Senator from the State concerned. 
 (b)  Representatives  In the event a Representative from a State does not submit nominations for midshipmen for an academic year in accordance with section 8454(a)(4) of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Representative's successor as Representative occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for midshipmen for the academic year, the nominations for midshipmen otherwise authorized to be made by the Representative pursuant to such section shall be made instead by the Senators from the State of the congressional district concerned, with such nominations divided equally among such Senators and any remainder going to the senior Senator from the State.   (c)  Construction of authority  Any nomination for midshipmen made by a Member pursuant to this section is not a reallocation of a nomination. Such nominations are made in lieu of a Member that does not submit nominations for cadets for an academic year in accordance with section 8454 of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Member’s successor occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for midshipmen for the academic year. 
 . 
 (2)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 853 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 8454 the following new item:     8454a. Midshipmen: nomination in event of death, resignation, or expulsion from office of Member of Congress otherwise authorized to nominate.  .   (c)  Air Force Academy   (1)  In general  Chapter 953  of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 9442  the following new section:

 9442a.  Cadets: nomination in event of death, resignation, or expulsion from office of Member of Congress otherwise authorized to nominate 
 (a)  Senators  In the event a Senator does not submit nominations for cadets for an academic year in accordance with section 9442(a)(3) of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Senator's successor as Senator occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for cadets for the academic year, the nominations for cadets otherwise authorized to be made by the Senator pursuant to such section shall be made instead by the other Senator from the State concerned.   (b)  Representatives  In the event a Representative from a State does not submit nominations for cadets for an academic year in accordance with section 9442(a)(4) of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Representative's successor as Representative occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for cadets for the academic year, the nominations for cadets otherwise authorized to be made by the Representative pursuant to such section shall be made instead by the Senators from the State of the congressional district concerned, with such nominations divided equally among such Senators and any remainder going to the senior Senator from the State. 
 (c)  Construction of authority  Any nomination for cadets made by a Member pursuant to this section is not a reallocation of a nomination. Such nominations are made in lieu of a Member that does not submit nominations for cadets for an academic year in accordance with section 9442 of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Member’s successor occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for cadets for the academic year. 
 .   (2)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 953 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 9442 the following new item: 


 9442a. Cadets: nomination in event of death, resignation, or expulsion from office of Member of Congress otherwise authorized to nominate.  . 
 (d)  Merchant Marine Academy 
 (1)  In general  Chapter 513  of title 46, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 51302  the following new section:   51302a.  Cadets: nomination in event of death, resignation, or expulsion from office of Member of Congress otherwise authorized to nominate   (a)  Senators  In the event a Senator does not submit nominations for cadets for an academic year in accordance with section 51302(b)(1) of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Senator’s successor as Senator occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for cadets for the academic year, the nominations for cadets otherwise authorized to be made by the Senator pursuant to such section shall be made instead by the other Senator from the State concerned. 
 (b)  Representatives  In the event a Representative from a State does not submit nominations for cadets for an academic year in accordance with section 51302(b)(2) of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Representative’s successor as Representative occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for cadets for the academic year, the nominations for cadets otherwise authorized to be made by the Representative pursuant to such section shall be made instead by the Senators from the State of the congressional district concerned, with such nominations divided equally among such Senators and any remainder going to the senior Senator from the State.   (c)  Construction of authority  Any nomination for cadets made by a Member pursuant to this section is not a reallocation of a nomination. Such nominations are made in lieu of a Member that does not submit nominations for cadets for an academic year in accordance with section 51302 of this title due to death, resignation from office, or expulsion from office and the date of the swearing-in of the Member’s successor occurs after the date of the deadline for submittal of nominations for cadets for the academic year. 
 . 
 (2)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 513 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 51302 the following new item:     51302a. Cadets: nomination in event of death, resignation, or expulsion from office of Member of Congress otherwise authorized to nominate.  . 
 