
 1.  Defense supply chain risk assessment framework 
 (a)  In general  Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall establish a framework, which may be included as part of a framework developed under section 2509 of title 10, United States Code, and pursuant to recommendations provided under section 5 of Executive Order 14017 (86 Fed. Reg. 11849, relating to America’s supply chains), to consolidate the information relating to risks to the defense supply chain that is collected by the elements of the Department of Defense to—   (1)  enable Department-wide risk assessments of the defense supply chain; and 
 (2)  support the development of strategies to mitigate risks to the defense supply chain.   (b)  Framework requirements  The framework established under subsection (a) shall— 
 (1)  provide for the collection, management, and storage of data from the supply chain risk management processes of the Department of Defense;   (2)  provide for the collection of reports on supply chain risk management from the military departments and Defense Agencies, and the dissemination of such reports to the components of the military departments and Defense Agencies involved in the management of supply chain risk; 
 (3)  enable all elements of the Department to analyze the information collected by such framework to identify risks to the defense supply chain;   (4)  enable the Department to— 
 (A) assess the capabilities of foreign adversaries (as defined in section 8(c) of the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act of 2019 ( 47 U.S.C. 1607(c) )) to affect the defense supply chain;  (B)  analyze the ability of the industrial base of the United States to meet the needs of the defense supply chain; 
 (C)  track global technology trends that could affect the defense supply chain, as determined by the Secretary of Defense; and   (D)  assess the risks posed by emerging threats to the defense supply chain; 
 (5)  support the identification of technology in which the Department may invest to reduce risks to the defense supply chain, including by improving the resilience of the defense supply; and   (6)  provide for— 
 (A)  a map of the supply chains for major end items that supports analysis, monitoring, and reporting with respect to high-risk subcontractors and risks to such supply chain; and   (B)  the use of a covered application described in subsection (c) in the creation of such map to assess risks to the supply chain for major end items by business sector, vendor, program, part, or technology. 
 (c)  Covered application described  The covered application described in this subsection is a covered application that includes the following elements:   (1)  A centralized database that consolidates multiple disparate data sources into a single repository to ensure the consistent availability of data. 
 (2)  Centralized reporting to allow for efficient mitigation and remediation of identified supply chain vulnerabilities.   (3)  Broad interoperability with other software and systems to ensure support for the analytical capabilities of users across the Department. 
 (4)  Scalable technology to support multiple users, access controls for security, and functionality designed for information-sharing and collaboration.   (d)  Guidance  Not later than 180 days after the framework required under subsection (a) is established, and regularly thereafter, the Secretary of Defense shall issue guidance on mitigating risks to the defense supply chain. 
 (e)  Reports 
 (1)  Progress report  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the progress of establishing the framework as required under subsection (a).   (2)  Final report  Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report describing the framework established under subsection (a) and the organizational structure to manage and oversee the framework. 
 (f)  Definitions  In this section:   (1)  Covered application The term  covered application  means a software-as-a-service application that uses decision science, commercial data, and machine learning techniques.
 (2)  Defense Agency; military department The terms  Defense Agency  and  military department  have the meanings given such terms in section 101 of title 10, United States Code.  (3)  High-risk subcontractors The term  high-risk subcontractor  means a subcontractor at any tier that supplies major end items for the Department of Defense.
 (4)  Major end item The term  major end item  means an item subject to a unique item-level traceability requirement at any time in the life cycle of such item under Department of Defense Instruction 8320.04, titled  Item Unique Identification (IUID) Standards for Tangible Personal Property  and dated September 3, 2015, or any successor instruction.
 