 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Drug-Impaired Driving Education Act of 2021 .
 2.  Drug-impaired driving education grant program  (a)  Establishment  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a program to provide grants on a competitive basis to States to educate the public on the dangers of drug-impaired driving.  (b)  Application for grant  To be eligible for a grant provided under this Act, a State shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.  (c)  Use of grant through covered entity  A State that receives a grant under the program established under subsection (a) may use such grant to provide funds to a covered entity that will educate the public on the dangers of drug-impaired driving.  (d)  Best available evidence  A State that receives a grant provided under this Act, or an entity using funds provided by a State that received such grant, to educate the public on the dangers of drug-impaired driving shall—  (1)  use evidence and strategies recommended by the Congressional Research Service publication titled “Marijuana Use and Highway Safety”, published in May, 2019;   (2) use evidence and strategies recommended by the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration publication titled  Countermeasures That Work: A Highway Safety Countermeasure Guide For State Highway Safety Offices, Ninth Edition, 2017 , published in April, 2018; or (3)  use other evidence-based, peer-reviewed strategies as determined by the Secretary.  (e)  Evaluation  Not later than 2 years after the date on which a State receives a grant under the program established under subsection (a), the State shall submit to the Secretary an evaluation of the progress made toward reducing drug-impaired driving within the State.  (f)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $10,000,000 for each of the first 2 fiscal years beginning after the date of enactment of this Act.  (g)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Covered entity The term  covered entity  includes the following: (A)  A State government agency.  (B)  A local government agency or political subdivision of a State.  (C)  An Indian Tribal Government.  (D)  A nonprofit organization.  (E)  A State or local prosecution office.  (F)  A State or local law enforcement agency.  (2)  Drug-impaired driving The term  drug-impaired driving  means driving under the influence of marijuana, opioids, cocaine, amphetamines, fentanyl, or phencyclidine. (3)  Marijuana The term  marijuana  has the meaning given such term in section 4008 of the FAST Act ( Public Law 114–94 ). (4)  Nonprofit organization The term  nonprofit organization  means an organization that is described in  section 501(c)(3)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 ( 26 U.S.C. 501(c)(3) ) and is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code. (5)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Transportation. (6)  State The term  State  means a State of the United States, the District of Columbia, each territory of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe.
