 1.  Green Star Flag for next of kin of veterans deceased as result of suicide  (a)  Green Star Flag  Chapter 9  of title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 904.  Green Star Flag  (a)  Designation  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall design and designate a flag as the Green Star Flag to identify next of kin of covered veterans.  (b)  Individuals entitled To display Green Star Flag  An individual who is next of kin of a covered veteran may display the Green Star Flag.   (c)  License To manufacture and sell  Any person may apply to the Secretary for a license to manufacture and sell the designated Green Star Flag. A person that manufactures a Green Star Flag without having first obtained a license or otherwise violates this section is liable to the United States for a civil penalty of not more than $1,000.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  covered veteran  means a veteran who died— (A)  on or after September 11, 2001; and  (B)  as the result of suicide.  (2) The term  next of kin  includes— (A)  a family member, as that term is defined in section 1720K of title 38; and  (B)  any individual specified by the Secretary in regulations prescribed pursuant to this section. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:  904. Green Star Flag.  . 
 2.  Counseling program for certain family members and caregivers of veterans deceased as a result of suicide  (a)  Counseling program Subchapter II of  chapter 17  of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 1720K.  Counseling program for certain family members and caregivers of veterans deceased as a result of suicide  (a)  Counseling program  (1)  Subject to paragraph (2), the Secretary shall furnish, at no cost to the recipient, counseling services to—  (A)  the next of kin of covered veterans; and  (B)  former volunteer caregivers of covered veterans.  (2)  The Secretary may provide counseling services under this section only if the Secretary determines such counseling services are—  (A)  reasonably accessible to the an individual described in paragraph (1); and  (B)  substantially equivalent or superior to similar services furnished by the Secretary to an individual described in paragraph (1).  (3)  To carry out subsection (a), the Secretary may enter into an agreement with a Federal, State, or private entity. The Secretary may provide fair compensation to such entity pursuant to such agreement.  (b)  Public awareness  In carrying out the program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—  (1)  publish information relating to the program on an internet website of the Department; and  (2)  provide information relating to the program to any individual described in paragraph (1).  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The terms  covered veteran  and  next of kin  has the meaning given that term in section 904 of title 36. (2) The term  covered veterans service organization  includes— (A)  an organization recognized by the Secretary for the representation of veterans under section 5902 of this title; and  (B)  an organization—  (i)  that is described in section 501(c)(3) or 501(c)(19) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code; and  (ii)  that carries out activities relating to veterans and their assistance.  (3) The term  family member  means, with respect to a covered veteran, an individual— (A)  who is a member of the family of the veteran, including—  (i)  a parent or legal guardian;   (ii)  a spouse;   (iii)  a child;   (iv)  a step-family member; and  (v)  an extended family member; or  (B)  who, prior to the death of the covered veteran, lived with the covered veteran.  (4) The term  former volunteer caregiver  means, with respect to a covered veteran, an individual— (A)  who is at least 18 years of age; and  (B)  who, prior to the death of the covered veteran, and in connection with a covered veterans service organization, furnished the covered veteran with counseling, social work, or other personal care services—  (i)  without compensation to such individual; and  (ii)  for a period of at least three months.  (5) The term  personal care services  has the meaning given that term in section 1720G of this title.
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of subchapter II of chapter 17 of such title is amended by inserting, after the item relating to section 1720J, the following new item:  1720K. Counseling program for certain family members and caregivers of veterans deceased as a result of suicide.  .  (c)  Commencement  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out section 1720K of such title, as added by subsection (a), by not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
