 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Tree Spiking Mitigation Act of 2021 .
 2.  Detection, identification, and mitigation of tree spiking devices on federal land  (a)  In general  The Secretaries, acting in coordination, shall take necessary actions to ensure the detection, identification, and, as the Secretaries determine to be appropriate, mitigation of tree spiking devices located on Federal land.  (b)  Prioritization  For purposes of carrying out activities under subsection (a), the Secretaries shall prioritize areas in which—  (1)  incidences of tree spiking devices have occurred; or  (2)  the Secretaries suspect that there are tree spike devices.  (c)  Memoranda of understanding  The Secretaries may enter into memoranda of understanding for carrying out activities on Federal land under this section.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretaries to carry out this section $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2022, to remain available until September 30, 2026. 
 3.  Updates to safety guidelines and training protocols  Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretaries shall, where appropriate, update safety guidelines and training protocols to include the awareness, detection, identification, and mitigation of tree spiking devices. 
 4.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Federal land The term  Federal land  means— (A) land of the National Forest System (as defined in section 11(a) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 ( 16 U.S.C. 1609(a) )), except— (i) the national grasslands and land utilization projects administered under title III of the Bankhead-Jones Farm Tenant Act ( 7 U.S.C. 1010 et seq. ); or (ii)  National Forest System land east of the 100th meridian; and  (B)  land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.  (2)  Secretaries The term  Secretaries  means each of— (A)  the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service; and  (B)  the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the Bureau of Land Management.  (3)  Tree spiking device The term  tree spiking device  means any tree spiking device described in section 1864(d)(3) of title 18, United States Code.
