 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Providing Officer Licensing to Increase Confidence for Everyone Act  or the  POLICE Act  .
 2.  Law enforcement licensing standards  (a)  In general  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General, in consultation with appropriate nongovernmental associations (such as the International Association of Directors of Law Enforcement Standards and Training and the Commission on Accreditation of Law Enforcement Agencies), shall issue licensing standards for law enforcement officers based on best practices for law enforcement. Such licensing standards shall be reviewed and, if necessary, modified every 5 years.  (b)  Federal licensing  (1)  In general  Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, each Federal law enforcement officer shall be licensed in accordance with the licensing standards issued pursuant to subsection (a).  (2)  Continuing education  Each Federal law enforcement officer who has received a license under paragraph (1) shall take annual continuing education classes on such topics as the Attorney General may require to maintain the license for a year.  (3)  Federal law enforcement officer defined In this subsection, the term  Federal law enforcement officer  has the meaning given the term in section 115 of title 18, United States Code. (c)  State licensing  (1)  In general  Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, a State shall—  (A)  have in effect a licensing system under which each State and local law enforcement officer shall be licensed in accordance with the licensing standards issued pursuant to subsection (a); and  (B)  have in effect a continuing education program that is substantially similar to the program for Federal law enforcement officers under subsection (b)(2).  (2)  Byrne If a State fails to comply with the requirement under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the State shall be subject to a 50 percent reduction of the amount that would otherwise be awarded in the following fiscal year to that State under subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ( 34 U.S.C. 10151  et seq.). (3)  Reallocation Amounts not allocated to a State for failure to comply with this subsection shall be reallocated to States that have complied in accordance with subpart 1 of part E of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ( 34 U.S.C. 10151  et seq.).
