
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Interagency Committee on Women’s Business Enterprise Act of 2021 .
  2.  Interagency Committee on Women’s Business Enterprise Title IV of the Women’s Business Ownership Act of 1988 ( 15 U.S.C. 7101 et seq. ) is amended—
 (1) in section 402 ( 15 U.S.C. 7102 )—  (A)  in subsection (a)— 
 (i)  by striking paragraphs (2) and (5);   (ii)  by redesignating paragraphs (3) and (4) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively; and 
 (iii)  by adding at the end the following:    (4)  monitor the plans, programs, and operations of the departments and agencies of the Federal Government to identify barriers to new business formation by women entrepreneurs, or barriers experienced by women-led startups in accessing and participating in the plans, programs, and operations of the departments and agencies of the Federal Government.  ; 
 (B) in subsection (b), by inserting after the first sentence the following:  In addition to the meetings described in the preceding sentence, the Interagency Committee shall meet at the call of the executive director of the Council or the chairperson of the Interagency Committee. ; and  (C) in subsection (c), in the first sentence, by inserting  , including through the use of research and policy developed by the Council  after  Council ; 
 (2) in section 403 ( 15 U.S.C. 7103 )—  (A)  in subsection (a)— 
 (i)  in paragraph (1)—   (I) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by inserting  the executive director of the Council and  before  1 representative ; and
 (II)  by adding at the end the following:    (K)  The National Aeronautics and Space Administration. 
 (L)  The Environmental Protection Agency.   (M)  The Office of Management and Budget. 
 (N)  The Bureau of Labor Statistics.   (O)  The Department of Homeland Security. 
 (P)  The Department of Veterans Affairs.  ; and   (ii)  in paragraph (2)— 
 (I) in subparagraph (A), by striking  Small Business Administration Reauthorization Act of 1997  and inserting  Interagency Committee on Women’s Business Enterprise Act of 2021 ; and  (II)  in subparagraph (B)— 
 (aa) by striking  Small Business ; and  (bb) by striking  National Women's Business Council established under section 405  and inserting  Council ; and
 (B)  by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:    (b)  Appointment   (1)  In general Not later than 45 days after the date of enactment of the  Interagency Committee on Women’s Business Enterprise Act of 2021 , the President, in consultation with the Administrator, shall appoint one of the members of the Interagency Committee to serve as chairperson.
 (2)  Vacancy  In the event that a chairperson is not appointed during the 45-day period described in paragraph (1), the Deputy Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall serve as acting chairperson of the Interagency Committee until a chairperson is appointed under paragraph (1).  ; and   (3) in section 404 ( 15 U.S.C. 7104 )—
 (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking  1995  and inserting  2021 ;  (B) in paragraph (1), by adding  and  at the end;
 (C) in paragraph (2), by striking  ; and  and inserting a period; and  (D)  by striking paragraph (3). 

