 1.  Audit of United States contributions to multilateral and international organizations  (a)  In general Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall establish within the Office of Audits of the Office of the Inspector General of the Department of State a unit to be known as the  Unit to Audit US Contributions to Multilateral and International Organizations . (b)  Annual audit  (1)  In general  Not later than December 31 of each year, the unit established pursuant to subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary an audit of United States contributions to multilateral and international organizations during the immediately preceding fiscal year.  (2)  Elements  Each audit under paragraph (1) shall include the following:  (A)  Information relating to—  (i)  the aggregate amount of United States contributions to recipient multilateral and international organizations; and  (ii)  the purposes for each such contribution.  (B)  An analysis relating to—  (i)  whether each such organization achieved the purpose for the contributions;  (ii)  fraud, waste, or abuse of such contributions by each such organization; and  (iii)  whether the contributions received by each such organization were in turn provided directly or indirectly to—  (I)  the People’s Republic of China;  (II)  the Russian Federation;  (III)  the Islamic Republic of Iran;  (IV)  the Democratic People’s Republic of Korea;  (V)  the Bolivarian Republic of Venezuela;  (VI)  the Syrian Arab Republic; or  (VII) an organization designated as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1189 ). (c)  Report  Not later than 30 days after the receipt of each audit under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report based on the information and analysis in each such audit.  (d)  Limitation  No additional appropriations are authorized to carry out this section, which shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated to the Department of State.  (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Appropriate congressional committees the term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (A)  the Committee on Foreign Affairs in the House of Representatives; and  (B)  the Committee on Foreign Relations in the Senate.  (2)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of State.
