 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Lead Abatement for Families Act of 2021 .
 2.  Lead abatement for families  (a)  Identification of lead water service lines  (1)  Review  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in consultation with public housing agencies, owners of other federally assisted housing, and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Administration shall, not later than the expiration of the 24-month period beginning upon the date of the enactment of this Act, undertake and complete a review of all public housing projects and all other federally assisted housing projects to identify any such projects for which the source of potable water is a lead-based water service pipe or pipes.  (2)  Report  Upon completion of the review required under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall submit a report to the Congress setting forth the results of the review and identifying any projects for which the source of potable water is a lead-based water service pipe or pipes.  (b)  Grant authority  (1)  In general  The Secretary may make grants to public housing agencies and owners of other federally assisted housing to cover the eligible costs of fully removing and replacing lead-based water service pipes for housing projects identified pursuant to the review under subsection (a) or otherwise identified by the Secretary.  (2)  Eligible costs  Amounts from a grant under this subsection may be used only for costs of fully removing and replacing a lead-based water service pipe for a housing project.  (3)  Assurances  The Secretary shall require each public housing agency and owner of other federally assisted housing receiving a grant under this subsection for a housing project to make such assurances and enter into such agreements as the Secretary considers necessary to ensure that—  (A)  the lead-based water service pipes for the project that will be fully removed and replaced using such grant amounts are identified; and  (B)  all work to fully remove and replace such pipes is completed before the expiration of the 24-month period beginning upon the initial availability to the agency or owner of such grant amounts.  (4)  Limitation on amounts  The amount of grant under this subsection with respect to a housing project may not exceed the estimate of the Secretary of the full cost of removing and replacing the lead-based water service pipes for the project identified pursuant to paragraph (3)(A).  (c)  Final report  Upon the expiration of the 6-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a report identifying the housing projects for which lead-based water service pipes were removed and replaced using grants under subsection (b) and analyzing the effectiveness of the program for such grants.  (d)  Definitions  For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:  (1)  Housing project The term  housing project  means a public housing project or a project that is other federally assisted housing. (2)  Other federally assisted housing The term  other federally assisted housing  has the meaning given the term  federally assisted housing  in section 683 of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1992 ( 42 U.S.C. 13641 ), except that such term does not include any public housing project described in paragraph (2)(A) of such section. (3)  Lead-based water service pipe The term  lead-based water service pipe  means, with respect to a housing project, a pipe or other conduit that— (A)  is used to supply potable water for the housing project from outside the project; and  (B) does not satisfy the definition of  lead-free  established under section 1417 of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300g–6 ). (4)  Public housing The term  public housing  has the meaning given such term in section 3(b) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 ( 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b) ). (5)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. (e)  Rules; guidance  The Secretary, after consultation with the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Administration, may issue any interpretative rules or guidance necessary to carry out this section.  (f)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated for grants under subsection (b)—  (1)  $90,000,000 for fiscal year 2022;  (2)  $80,000,000 for fiscal year 2023; and  (3)  $80,000,000 for fiscal year 2024. 
