 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Infrastructure Expansion Act of 2021 .
 2.  Preservation of Federal financial assistance for infrastructure and transportation development  (a)  No absolute liability on projects receiving federal financial assistance  For any project for which Federal financial assistance is used, directly or indirectly, no action on the basis of absolute liability may be instituted by a covered person against a property owner or a party to a contract relating to the property that is the subject of the project for any injury associated with an elevation or gravity related risk occurring on that project. For any project for which Federal financial assistance is used, a State shall, for any claim brought by a covered person otherwise available against a property owner or contractor for any injury associated with an elevation or gravity related risk, apply a comparative negligence liability standard that considers the comparative negligence of the injured person, when such negligence is a proximate cause of an injury to a person.  (b)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  absolute liability  means liability for a personal injury or death that is imposed without consideration of the responsibility of the injured person, including failure to follow safety instructions or safe work practices in accordance with training provided, failure to utilize provided safety equipment or devices, impairment by the use of drugs or alcohol, or involvement in a criminal act, when such failure, impairment, or act is a proximate cause of an injury to such person. (2) The term  covered person  means any person who supervises or performs any work on or who is otherwise affiliated with a project. (3) The term  elevation or gravity related risk  means a hazard related to the effects of gravity either due to the difference between the elevation level of the required work and a lower level or a difference between the elevation level where the worker is positioned and the higher level of the materials or load being hoisted or secured. (4) The term  project  means the erection, demolition, repairing, altering, painting, cleaning or pointing of a highway, bridge, tunnel, airport, railway, bus or railroad station, depot, pier, building, or any other structure owned or operated by the Federal Government or for which Federal financial assistance is used. (5) The term  State  includes a port authority, transit agency, public toll authority, metropolitan planning organization, or other political subdivision of a State or local government. (c)  Workers’ compensation laws  Nothing in this section shall be construed to preempt any law of a State providing for workers’ compensation.  (d)  Effective date  This section applies to claims arising from projects in which a State or local government accepts Federal financial assistance on or after January 1, 2021. 
