 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Vaccine Passport Prevention Act of 2021 .
 2.  Prohibition against vaccine passports  (a)  No government-Issued vaccine passports  (1)  Federal Government  The Federal Government shall not—  (A)  issue any vaccine passport; or  (B)  discriminate against any person by requiring documentation certifying COVID–19 vaccination, or post-transmission recovery, as a condition on the provision of any service or benefit.  (2)  State, Tribal, and local governments  (A)  Prohibition  As a condition on receipt of any Federal funds made available by or under any of the Acts listed in subparagraph (B), no State, Tribal, or local government shall—  (i)  issue any vaccine passport; or  (ii)  discriminate against person by requiring documentation certifying COVID–19 vaccination, or post-transmission recovery, as a condition on the provision of any service or benefit  (B)  Specified Acts  The Acts listed in this subparagraph are the following:  (i) The Coronavirus Preparedness and Response Supplemental Appropriations Act, 2020 ( Public Law 116–123 ). (ii) The Families First Coronavirus Response Act ( Public Law 116–127 ). (iii) The CARES Act ( Public Law 116–136 ). (iv) The Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act ( Public Law 116–139 ). (v) The American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 ( Public Law 117–2 ). (C)  Exception  Subparagraph (A) does not apply with respect to a school, including any kindergarten, elementary school, secondary school, and institution of higher education.  (3)  Definition In this subsection, the term  vaccine passport — (A)  means any standardized documentation for the purpose of certifying an individual’s COVID–19 vaccination status to a third party; and  (B)  excludes any documentation to the extent it is issued for the purpose of health care records.  (b)  No discrimination in provision of products and services  (1)  Prohibition  No entity providing any product or service in or affecting interstate commerce shall require any patron or customer to provide any documentation certifying COVID–19 vaccination, or post-transmission recovery, as a condition on the provision of such product or service.  (2)  Exception  Paragraph (1) does not apply with respect to the provision of—  (A)  education by any school, including any kindergarten, elementary school, secondary school, and institution of higher education; or  (B)  health care products and services.  (3)  Penalty  Whoever is found in a civil action to enforce this subsection to be in violation of paragraph (1) shall be ineligible to be awarded, during the 2-year period beginning on the date on which such finding becomes final, any Federal grant or contract.  (4)  Private right of action  (A)  In general  Any person who is denied a provision or service, or who is discriminated against in the provision of a product or service, in violation of paragraph (1), may commence a civil action in an appropriate district court of the United States to seek injunctive relief with respect to such violation.  (B)  Reasonable costs  In a civil action under subparagraph (A), the court may allow the prevailing party reasonable costs, including attorney’s fees. 
 3.  Prohibition on vaccination as a condition of Federal employment  (a)  In general  The Federal Government shall not require that a Federal employee receive a COVID–19 vaccine as a condition of employment.  (b)  Exception  Subsection (a) does not apply with respect to employees of the Department of Defense. 
 4.  Required exemptions for certain schools mandating COVID–19 vaccine  (a)  In general  If a school requires a student to receive a COVID–19 vaccine as a condition on enrollment or continued enrollment, the Secretary of Education may not award any financial assistance to such school, directly or indirectly through a State educational agency or local educational agency, unless the school provides the following exemptions from such requirement:  (1)  Religious exemption  Based on an objection in good faith that immunization would violate the student’s religious beliefs.  (2)  Medical exemption  Based on a certification—  (A)  by a physician that immunization of the student is medically inadvisable; or  (B)  by a public health authority of the relevant State or locality that immunization for students in a category in which such student belongs is medically inadvisable.  (3)  Reasons of conscience exemption  Based on an objection in good faith that immunization would violate reasons of conscience.  (4)  Natural immunity exemption  Based on the student having had COVID–19 and acquired natural immunity.  (b)  Form  An objection or certification described in paragraph (1), (2), (3), or (4) of subsection (a) shall be submitted in writing to the chief official of the school by, as applicable, the student or the student’s parent or legal guardian.  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The terms  elementary school  and  secondary school  have the meanings given to such terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 ). (2) The term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given to such term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001 ). (3) The term  school  means a public or private kindergarten, a public or private elementary school or secondary school, or an institution of higher education.
