 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Ensuring Accountability in Agency Rulemaking Act .
 2.  Rule making requirements  (a)  Approval required  (1)  Rules promulgated by Senate confirmed appointee  Except as provided in paragraph (3), any rule promulgated under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, shall be issued and signed by an individual appointed by the President, by and with the advice and consent of the Senate.  (2)  Initiation of Rule making and regulatory agenda  Except as provided in paragraph (3), any rule initiated under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, shall be initiated by a senior appointee.  (3)  Exception  Paragraph (1) or (2) does not apply if the head of an agency—  (A)  determines, on a nondelegable basis, that compliance with the relevant paragraph would impede public safety or security;   (B)  submits to the Administrator a notification disclosing the reasons for the exemption; and  (C)  publishes such notification, consistent with public safety, security, and privacy interests, in the Federal Register.  (b)  Oversight  (1)  Agency compliance  The head of each agency shall ensure that the issuance of any agency rule promulgated under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, adheres to the requirements of this section.  (2)  OIRA guidance and compliance  The Administrator shall provide guidance on the implementation of and shall monitor agency compliance with this section.  (c)  Rules of construction  This section may not be construed to impair or otherwise affect the functions of the Director of the Office of Management and Budget relating to budgetary, administrative, or legislative proposals.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Administrator The term  Administrator  means the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs in the Office of Management and Budget. (2)  Agency The term  agency  has the meaning given that term under section 551 of title 5, United States Code. (3)  Rule The term  rule  has the meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code, and does not include any rule of agency organization, procedure, or practice that does not substantially affect the rights or obligations of non-agency parties. (4)  Senior appointee The term  senior appointee  means an individual appointed by the President, or performing the functions and duties of an office that requires appointment by the President, or a non-career member of the Senior Executive Service (or equivalent agency system). 
