 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Green Bus Act of 2021 .
 2.  Zero-emission bus requirements  (a)  In general  Chapter 53  of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 5312  the following: 5313.  Zero-emission bus requirements  (a)  In general  Notwithstanding any other requirements of this chapter, not later than October 1, 2029, any bus purchased or leased with funds provided under this chapter or otherwise provided by the Federal Transit Administration for purposes of providing public transportation shall be a zero-emission bus.  (b)  Federal share  Notwithstanding any other requirements of this chapter, the Federal share of the cost of any zero-emission bus purchased or leased with funds provided under this chapter or otherwise provided by the Federal Transit Administration for purposes of providing public transportation shall be 90 percent.  (c)  Definition of zero-Emission bus In this section, the term  zero-emission bus  means a bus that, under any possible operational modes or conditions, produces no exhaust emissions of— (1)  any greenhouse gas; or  (2) any air pollutant for which air quality criteria are issued under section 108 of the Clean Air Act ( 42 U.S.C. 7408 ) or for which a national ambient air quality standard has been promulgated under section 109 of such Act ( 42 U.S.C. 7409 ).
 .  (b)  Conforming amendment The table of sections for  chapter 53  of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item related to section 5312 the following new item: 5313. Zero-emission bus requirements.  . 
 3.  Report on best practices implementing zero-emission bus fleets  (a)  In general  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall compile, and make publicly available, a report containing best practices and lessons learned by transit agencies and States that have implemented or are in the process of implementing zero-emission bus fleets.  (b)  Consultation  In compiling the report, the Secretary shall consult with transit agencies, States, zero-emission bus manufacturers, and other stakeholders that the Secretary determines are appropriate.  (c)  Updates to report  The Secretary shall update the report required under subsection (a) annually. 
 4.  Preference under Low- or No-Emission Vehicle Program for operators with full fleet transition plans  Section 5339(c) of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:  (8)  Preference  In awarding grants under this subsection, the Secretary shall give preference to applicants who have completed a full fleet transition plan.  . 
