
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Advanced Air Mobility Coordination and Leadership Act .
  2.  Advanced air mobility working group   (a)  Working group Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish an advanced air mobility interagency working group (in this section referred to as the  working group ).
 (b)  Purpose  The purpose of the working group established under subsection (a) shall be to plan and coordinate efforts related to the safety, operations, infrastructure, physical security, cybersecurity, and Federal investment necessary for maturation of the AAM ecosystem in the United States. It is critical that Government agencies collaborate in order to enhance United States leadership, develop new transportation options, amplify economic activity and jobs, advance environmental sustainability and new technologies, and support emergency preparedness and competitiveness.   (c)  Membership  Not later than 60 days after the establishment of the working group under subsection (a), the Secretary of Transportation shall— 
 (1)  appoint the Under Secretary of Transportation for Policy to chair the working group;   (2)  designate not less than one additional representative to participate on the working group from each of— 
 (A)  the Department of Transportation; and   (B)  the Federal Aviation Administration; and 
 (3)  invite the heads of each of the following departments or agencies to designate not less than 1 representative to participate on the working group, including—   (A)  the National Aeronautics and Space Administration; 
 (B)  the Department of Defense;   (C)  the Department of Energy; 
 (D)  the Department of Homeland Security;   (E)  the Department of Commerce;  
 (F)  the Federal Communications Commission; and   (G)  such other departments or agencies as the Secretary of Transportation determines appropriate. 
 (d)  Coordination 
 (1)  In general  The Secretary of Transportation and Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration shall coordinate with aviation industry and labor stakeholders, stakeholder associations, and others determined appropriate by the Secretary of Transportation and the Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration, including the following:   (A)  Manufacturers of aircraft, avionics, propulsion systems, and air traffic management systems. 
 (B)  Intended operators of AAM aircraft.   (C)  Commercial air carriers, commercial operators, and general aviation operators, including helicopter operators. 
 (D)  Airports, heliports, and fixed-base operators.   (E)  Aviation training and maintenance providers. 
 (F)  Certified labor representatives of pilots, air traffic control specialists employed by the Federal Aviation Administration, aircraft mechanics, and aviation safety inspectors.   (G)  State, local, and Tribal officials or public agencies. 
 (H)  First responders.   (I)  Groups representing environmental interests. 
 (J)  Electric utilities, energy providers, energy market operators, and wireless providers.   (K)  Unmanned aircraft system operators and service suppliers. 
 (L)  Groups representing consumer interests.   (M)  Groups representing the interests of taxpayers.  
 (2)  Advisory committees  The Secretary of Transportation and Administrator of the Federal Aviation Administration may use such Federal advisory committees as may be appropriate to coordinate with the entities listed in paragraph (1).   (e)  Review and examination  Not later than 1 year after the establishment of the working group under subsection (a), the working group shall complete a review and examination of, at a minimum— 
 (1)  steps that will mature AAM aircraft operations, concepts, and regulatory frameworks beyond initial operations;   (2)  safety requirements and physical and cybersecurity involved with future air traffic management concepts which may be considered as part of the evolution of AAM to higher levels of traffic density; 
 (3)  current Federal programs and policies that may be leveraged to advance the maturation of the AAM industry;   (4)  infrastructure, including aviation, multimodal, cybersecurity, and utility infrastructure, necessary to accommodate and support expanded operations of AAM after initial implementation; 
 (5)  anticipated benefits associated with AAM aircraft operations, including economic, environmental, emergency and natural disaster response, and transportation benefits; and   (6)  other factors that may limit the full potential of the AAM industry, including community acceptance of AAM operations. 
 (f)  Plan and recommendations  Based on the review and examination performed under subsection (e), the working group shall develop—   (1)  recommendations regarding the safety, operations, security, cybersecurity, infrastructure, and other Federal investment or actions necessary to support the evolution of early AAM to higher levels of activity and societal benefit; and 
 (2)  a comprehensive plan detailing the roles and responsibilities of each Federal department or agency to facilitate or implement the recommendations in paragraph (1).   (g)  Report  Not later than 180 days after the completion of the review and examination completed under subsection (e), the working group shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report that— 
 (1)  details the review and examination performed under subsection (e); and   (2)  provides the plan and recommendations developed under subsection (f). 
 (h)  Definitions  In this Act:   (1)  Advanced Air Mobility; AAM The terms  advanced air mobility  and  AAM  mean a transportation system that transports people and property by air between two points in the United States using aircraft, including electric aircraft or electric vertical take-off and landing aircraft, in both controlled and uncontrolled airspace.
 (2)  Electric aircraft The term  electric aircraft  means an aircraft with a fully electric or hybrid (fuel and electric) driven propulsion system used for flight.  (3)  Fixed-base operator The term  fixed-base operator  means a business granted the right by an airport sponsor or heliport sponsor to operate on an airport or heliport and provide aeronautical services, including fueling and charging, aircraft hangaring, tiedown and parking, aircraft rental, aircraft maintenance, and flight instruction.
 (4)  State The term  State  has the meaning given such term in section 47102 of title 49, United States Code.   (5)  Vertical take-off and landing The term  vertical take-off and landing  means an aircraft with lift/thrust units used to generate powered lift and control and with two or more lift/thrust units used to provide lift during vertical take-off or landing.

