 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Transportation Workforce Centers of Excellence Act . 
 2.  Centers of excellence in transportation workforce training  (a)  In general Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation, in consultation with the Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Labor, shall designate in accordance with subsection (b) certain consortia of 2-year institutions of higher education as Community and Technical College Centers of Excellence in Transportation Workforce Training (in this section referred to as  Centers of Excellence ). (b)  Criteria for designation  The Secretary of Transportation shall designate as a Center of Excellence under subsection (a) a consortium the Secretary determines has a demonstrated ability to—  (1)  address education and training related to careers in transportation sectors; and  (2)  carry out the following activities:  (A)  Developing and implementing career pathways and programs of study that lead to recognized postsecondary credentials in transportation sectors.  (B)  Providing on-the-job training or work-based learning opportunities in transportation sectors.  (C)  Developing dual or concurrent enrollment programs to provide education and training opportunities to secondary school students.  (D)  Providing education and training related to emerging technologies in transportation sectors.  (E)  Partnering with employers, labor organizations, local workforce development boards, State workforce development boards, State educational agencies, and eligible agencies to address education and training related to careers in transportation sectors.  (F)  Providing outreach and career counseling to increase participation in transportation sectors.  (c)  Collaboration  To address education and training related to careers in transportation sectors, Centers of Excellence may seek to collaborate with institutions receiving grants under section 5505 of title 49, United States Code.  (d)  Grants to centers of excellence  (1)  In general The Secretary shall establish a program (in this subsection referred to as the  Program ) to award grants on a competitive basis, as determined by the Secretary, to Centers of Excellence to address education and training related to careers in transportation sectors. (2)  Eligible projects  Grant funds awarded under the Program may only be used for a project that facilitates an activity specified in subsection (b).  (3)  Applications  To be eligible for a grant under the Program, a Center of Excellence designated under subsection (a) shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate.  (4)  Limitations on grants  (A)  Limitation on amount  The amount of a grant under the Program may not exceed $2,000,000.  (B)  Limitation on Federal share  The Federal share of the cost of a project carried out by a grant under the Program may not exceed 50 percent.  (5)  Report  Each recipient of a grant under the Program shall submit to the Secretary a report in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate to evaluate the grant, including the following:  (A)  Information relating to the use of grant funds awarded to the recipient under the Program.  (B)  An evaluation of each project carried out with such grant funds, including the following:  (i) The percentage, and median earnings, of individuals participating in or benefitting from the project (in this section referred to as  participants ) who are in unsubsidized employment 90 days after exit from the project. (ii)  The percentage of participants who are in unsubsidized employment 180 days after exit from the project.  (iii)  The percentage of participants who obtain a recognized postsecondary credential, or a secondary school diploma or recognized equivalent, during the project or within 1 year after exit from the project.  (iv)  The percentage of participants who, during the project—  (I)  enrolled in an education or training program that leads to a recognized postsecondary credential or employment; or  (II)  developed skills necessary to receive such credential or employment.  (6)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.  (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Career pathway The term  career pathway  has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ( 29 U.S.C. 3102 ). (2)  Dual or concurrent enrollment program The term  dual or concurrent enrollment program  has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 ). (3)  Eligible agency The term  eligible agency  has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 ( 20 U.S.C. 2302 ).  (4)  Institution of higher education The term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001 ). (5)  Local workforce development board The term  local workforce development board  means a local workforce development board established under section 107 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ( 29 U.S.C. 3122 ).  (6)  On-the-job training The term  on-the-job training  has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ( 29 U.S.C. 3102 ). (7)  Program of study The term  program of study  has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the  Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006  ( 20 U.S.C. 2302 ). (8)  Recognized postsecondary credential The term  recognized postsecondary credential  has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ( 29 U.S.C. 3102 ). (9)  State educational agency The term  State educational agency  has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 ). (10)  State workforce development board The term  State workforce development board  means a State workforce development board established under section 101 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ( 29 U.S.C. 3111 ).  (11)  Transportation sector The term  transportation sector  means an industry sector that is involved in the manufacturing, operation, inspection, logistics, design, or engineering of equipment, materials, technologies, or infrastructure related to transportation (including surface, transit, railway, aviation, and maritime transportation). (12)  Work-based learning The term  work-based learning  has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the  Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006  ( 20 U.S.C. 2302 ).
