 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Healthcare Extension and Accessibility for Developmentally disabled and Underserved Population Act of 2021  or the  HEADs UP Act of 2021 .
 2.  Health care services by health centers and National Health Service Corps for individuals with a developmental disability  (a)  Inclusion within special medically underserved populations for purposes of health center definition Section 330(a)(1) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 254b(a)(1) ) is amended by striking  or a special medically underserved population comprised of migratory and seasonal agricultural workers, the homeless, and residents of public housing,  and inserting  or a special medically underserved population comprised of migratory and seasonal agricultural workers, the homeless, residents of public housing, and individuals with a developmental disability . (b)  Definitions  (1)  Additional health services Section 330(b)(2) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 330(b)(2) ) is amended— (A) in subparagraph (C), by striking  and  at the end; (B) in subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and (C)  by adding at the end the following:  (E)  in the case of health centers receiving grants under subsection (j), specially trained dental care services for individuals with a developmental disability who require specialized care.  .  (2)  Individuals with a developmental disability Section 330(b) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 254b(a)(1) ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (4)  Individuals with a developmental disability In this section, the term  individuals with a developmental disability  means individuals with a developmental disability as defined in section 102 of the Developmental Disabilities Assistance and Bill of Rights Act of 2000. .  (c)  Grants for services  (1)  Authorization Section 330 of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 254b ) is amended— (A)  by redesignating subsections (j) through (r) as subsections (k) through (s), respectively; and  (B)  by inserting after subsection (i) the following:  (j)  Individuals with a developmental disability  (1)  In general  The Secretary may award grants for the purposes described in subsections (c), (e), and (f) for the planning and delivery of services to a special medically underserved population comprised of individuals with a developmental disability, including grants for innovative programs that provide outreach and comprehensive primary health services, including dental care, to individuals with a developmental disability including such individuals who require specialized care.  (2)  Required services  In addition to required primary health services (as defined in subsection (b)(1)), an entity that receives a grant under this subsection shall be required to provide specialized treatment, as necessary, to individuals with a developmental disability as a condition of such grant.  (3)  Supplement not supplant requirement  A grant awarded under this subsection shall be expended to supplement, and not supplant, the expenditures of the health center and the value of in kind contributions for the delivery of services to the population described in paragraph (1).  .  (2)  Conforming change Section 330(a)(2) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 254b(a)(2) ) is amended by striking  or (i)  and inserting  (i), or (j) . (d)  Funding report Section 330(r)(3)(A) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 254b(r)(3)(4) ) is amended by striking  and migratory and seasonal agricultural workers,  and inserting  migratory and seasonal agricultural workers, and individuals with a developmental disability, . (e)  Inclusion for purposes of health professional shortage areas Section 332(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act is amended by striking and residents of public housing (as defined in section 3(b)(1) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 ( 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(1) )) and inserting residents of public housing (as defined in section 3(b)(1) of the United States Housing Act of 1937 ( 42 U.S.C. 1437a(b)(1) )), and individuals with a developmental disability (as defined in section 330(b)).
 3.  Inclusion of comprehensive dental treatment as required primary health services Subclause (I) of section 330(b)(1)(A)(i) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 330(b)(1)(A)(i) ) is amended by inserting before the semicolon at the end the following:  and services related to dentistry that are furnished by dentists and where appropriate dental hygienists .
