 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Homeownership for DREAMers Act .
 2.  DACA recipient eligibility  (a)  FHA Section 203 of the National Housing Act ( 12 U.S.C. 1709 ) is amended by inserting after subsection (h) the following: (i)  DACA recipient eligibility  (1)  In general  The Secretary may not—  (A)  prescribe terms that limit the eligibility of a single family mortgage for insurance under this title because of the status of the mortgagor as a DACA recipient; or  (B)  issue any limited denial of participation in the program for such insurance because of the status of the mortgagor as a DACA recipient.  (2)  DACA recipient defined For the purposes of this subsection, the term  DACA recipient  means an alien who, at any time before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this subsection, is or was in deferred action status pursuant to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (‘DACA’) Program announced by the Secretary of Homeland Security on June 15, 2012. (3)  Exemption  (A)  Denial for failure to satisfy valid eligibility requirements  Nothing in this title prohibits the denial of insurance based on failure to satisfy valid eligibility requirements.  (B)  Invalid eligibility requirements  Valid eligibility requirements do not include criteria that were adopted with the purpose of denying eligibility for insurance because of race, color, religion, sex, familial status, national origin, disability, or the status of a mortgagor as a DACA recipient.  .  (b)  Rural Housing Service Section 501 of the Housing Act of 1949 ( 42 U.S.C. 1472 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (k)  DACA recipient eligibility  (1)  In general  The Secretary may not prescribe terms that limit eligibility for a single family mortgage made, insured, or guaranteed under this title because of the status of the mortgagor as a DACA recipient.  (2)  DACA recipient defined For the purposes of this paragraph, the term  DACA recipient  means an alien who, at any time before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, is or was in deferred action status pursuant to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (‘DACA’) Program announced by the Secretary of Homeland Security on June 15, 2012. .  (c)  Fannie Mae Section 302(b) of the National Housing Act ( 12 U.S.C. 1717(b) ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (8)  DACA recipient eligibility  (A)  In general  The corporation may not condition purchase of a single-family residence mortgage by the corporation under this subsection on the status of the borrower as a DACA recipient.  (B)  DACA recipient defined For the purposes of this paragraph, the term  DACA recipient  means an alien who, at any time before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this paragraph, is or was in deferred action status pursuant to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (‘DACA’) Program announced by the Secretary of Homeland Security on June 15, 2012. .   (d)  Freddie Mac Section 305(a) of the Federal Home Loan Mortgage Corporation Act ( 12 U.S.C. 1454 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (6)  DACA recipient eligibility  (A)  In general  The Corporation may not condition purchase of a single-family residence mortgage by the corporation under this subsection on the status of the borrower as a DACA recipient.  (B)  DACA recipient defined For the purposes of this subsection, the term  DACA recipient  means an alien who, at any time before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this subsection, is or was in deferred action status pursuant to the Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (‘DACA’) Program announced by the Secretary of Homeland Security on June 15, 2012. . 
