 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Ending Critical Race Theory in D.C. Public Schools Act  .
 2.  Sense of Congress It is the sense of Congress that administrators, faculty, and other employees of the District of Columbia Public Schools and the District of Columbia Public Charter Schools should maintain policies in accordance with title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ( 42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq. ).
 3.  Dignity and nondiscrimination in public education in the District of Columbia  (a)  In general  No employee of the District of Columbia Public Schools or the District of Columbia Public Charter Schools shall compel a teacher or student to adopt, affirm, adhere to, or profess ideas that promote race or sex stereotyping or scapegoating.  (b)  Directing or compelling students To adopt prohibited ideas  No course of instruction or unit of study in the District of Columbia Public Schools or the District of Columbia Public Charter Schools may direct or otherwise compel students to personally adopt, affirm, adhere to, or profess ideas that promote race or sex stereotyping or scapegoating.  (c)  Directing or compelling teachers To adopt prohibited ideas  No course of instruction, unit of study, or professional development or training program of the District of Columbia Public Schools or the District of Columbia Public Charter Schools may direct or otherwise compel teachers to personally adopt, affirm, adhere to, or profess ideas that promote race or sex stereotyping or scapegoating.  (d)  Race or sex stereotyping or scapegoating defined For the purposes of this Act, the term  race or sex stereotyping or scapegoating  consists of the following list of prohibited divisive concepts: (1)  One race or sex is inherently superior to another race or sex.  (2)  The United States is fundamentally racist or sexist.  (3)  An individual, by virtue of his or her race or sex, is inherently racist, sexist, or oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously.  (4)  An individual should be discriminated against or receive adverse treatment solely or partly because of his or her race or sex.  (5)  Members of one race or sex cannot and should not attempt to treat others without respect to race or sex.  (6)  An individual’s moral character is necessarily determined by his or her race or sex.  (7)  An individual, by virtue of his or her race or sex, bears responsibility for actions committed in the past by other members of the same race or sex.  (8)  Any individual should feel discomfort, guilt, anguish, or any other form of psychological distress on account of his or her race or sex.  (9)  Meritocracy or traits such as a hard work ethic are racist or sexist, or were created by a particular race to oppress another. 
 4.  Severability  If any provision of this Act, or the application of a provision of this Act to any person or circumstance, is held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act, and the application of the provisions to any person or circumstance, shall not be affected by the holding. 
