 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Solving Our Shortages for Seedlings Act  or the  SOS for Seedlings Act .
 2.  Seedling strategy  (a)  In general  Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall develop and implement a national strategy to increase the capacity of Federal, State, Tribal, and private nurseries to address the nationwide shortage of tree seedlings.  (b)  Elements  The strategy required under subsection (a) shall—  (1)  be based on the best available science and data; and  (2)  identify and address—  (A)  regional seedling shortages of bareroot and container tree seedlings;  (B)  regional reforestation opportunities and the seedling supply necessary to fulfill such opportunities;   (C)  opportunities to enhance seedling diversity and close gaps in seed inventories; and  (D)  barriers to expanding, enhancing, or creating new infrastructure to increase nursery capacity. 
 3.  Federal nurseries Section 2 of the Act of June 9, 1930 ( 16 U.S.C. 576a ; commonly known as the  Knutson-Vandenberg Act ), is amended by striking  each fiscal year after year ending June 30, 1934, not to exceed $400,000,  and inserting  each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030, $25,000,000, .
 4.  Loan program for State, Tribal, and private nurseries  (a)  In general  The Secretary of Agriculture shall carry out a loan program to make or guarantee qualified nursery loans to eligible entities under this section.  (b)  Application  To be eligible to receive a qualified nursery loan or loan guarantee under this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary of Agriculture an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including a plan to maintain the genetic and physical quality of seedlings of the eligible entity.  (c)  Priority  In making qualified nursery loans or loan guarantees under this section, the Secretary of Agriculture shall give priority to eligible entities that—  (1)  are small businesses, in particular small businesses located in rural areas;  (2)  create or support jobs, particularly in rural areas; and  (3)  serve regions with high demand for reforestation.   (d)  Qualified nursery project  A loan or loan guarantee under this section may only be used to carry out a qualified nursery project to—  (1)  develop, expand, enhance, or improve nursery capacity or infrastructure;  (2)  establish nurseries; or  (3)  develop or implement quality control measures at nurseries.  (e)  Loan and loan guarantee terms  (1)  Amount guaranteed  The portion of a loan that the Secretary of Agriculture may guarantee under this section may not be greater than 80 percent of the principal amount of such loan.  (2)  Repayment  The period of repayment for a loan made under this section shall not exceed 20 years.  (f)  Administrative provisions  (1)  Limitation on authority  The total amount of qualified nursery loans made or guaranteed under this section by the Secretary may not exceed $1,000,000,000.  (2)  Distribution  The Secretary shall ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that loans made or guaranteed under this section are distributed across diverse geographic regions.  (g)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Eligible entity The term  eligible entity  means— (A)  a State, Tribal, or local government; or   (B)  a domestic private, non-profit, or cooperative organization.   (2)  Nursery The term  ‘nursery  means a State, Tribal, or local government or private owned facility that grows, stores, extracts, or monitors bareroot or container tree seedlings. (3)  Qualified nursery loan The term  qualified nursery loan  means a low-interest loan, the proceeds of which are used to cover the costs to the borrower of carrying out a qualified nursery project described in subsection (d).
