 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Reaching Every Homeless Veteran Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Grants for homeless veterans reintegration programs  (a)  Grants  Section 2021 of title 38, United States Code, is amended—  (1)  by redesignating subsections (b) through (e) as subsections (c) through (f), respectively; and   (2)  by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection:   (b)  Grants  (1)  In awarding grants for purposes of conducting programs described in subsection (a), the Secretary of Labor shall, to the extent practicable, consider applications for fundable grants from entities in all States.   (2) In each State in which no entity has been awarded a grant described in paragraph (1) as of the date of the enactment of the  Reaching Every Homeless Veteran Act of 2021 , the Secretary of Labor shall, in coordination with the Director of Veterans' Employment and Training assigned to the State under section 4103 of this title, organize and conduct an outreach and education program to ensure communities are aware of the programs conducted under this section and the benefits of the programs. .  (b)  Contents of biennial report to Congress  Subsection (e) of section 2021 of such title, as redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is amended—  (1) by inserting  (1)  before  Not less ; and  (2)  by striking the second sentence and inserting the following:   (2)  The Secretary of Labor shall include in each report submitted under paragraph (1) the following:   (A)  An evaluation of services furnished to veterans under this section.   (B)  An analysis of the information collected under subsection (c).  (C)  An identification of—   (i)  the total number of applications for grants under this section that the Secretary received during the fiscal year preceding the date on which the report is submitted; and   (ii)  the number of such applications that were denied.  (D)  With respect to each State in which no entity was awarded a grant under this section during the fiscal year preceding the date on which the report is submitted—  (i)   an identification of the top five reasons why entities that applied for such a grant were not awarded the grant; and  (ii)  information regarding the specific criteria used to score the applications and an explanation of if, how, or why such criteria differed from the previous fiscal year.  .  (c)  Conforming amendment Section 2021A(e) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking  section 2021(d)  and inserting  section 2021(e) . 
