 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Supporting Healthy Mothers and Infants Act of 2021  .
 2.  Amendments to special supplemental nutrition program  (a)  Special supplemental nutrition program for women, infants, and children Section 17 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 ( 42 U.S.C. 1786 ) is amended— (1) in subsection (a), by striking  drug abuse  and inserting  substance use disorder ; (2)  in subsection (b)—  (A) in paragraph (8), by striking  drug abuse  and inserting  substance use disorder ; and (B)  in paragraph (16)—  (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking  Drug abuse education  and inserting  Substance use disorder education ; (ii) in subparagraph (A), by striking  dangers of drug abuse  and inserting  harm of substance use on pregnancy and lactation ; and (iii)  in subparagraph (B)—  (I) by striking  are suspected drug abusers  and inserting  may have a substance use disorder ; (II) by striking  drug abuse clinics, ; and (III) by striking  drug abuse professionals  and inserting  resources ; (3)  in subsection (e)—  (A)  in paragraph (1)—  (i) by striking  drug abuse  each place it appears and inserting  substance use disorder ; and (ii) by striking  effects of drug  and inserting  effects of a substance use disorder ; and (B) in paragraph (5), by striking  substance abuse  and inserting  substance use disorder ; (4)  in subsection (f)—  (A) in paragraph (1)(C)(ix), by striking  drugs  and inserting  illicit or other harmful substances ; and (B) in paragraph (13), by striking  drug abuse education  and inserting  substance use disorder education ; (5)  in subsection (k)(1)—  (A) by striking  1 member  and inserting  one member ; and (B) by striking  drug abuse  and inserting  substance use disorder ; and (6)  by redesignating subsections (l) through (q) as subsections (m) through (r), respectively, and by inserting after subsection (k) the following:  (l)  Activities To support WIC-Eligible individuals impacted by substance use disorder  (1)  In general  The Secretary shall—  (A)  develop and disseminate nutrition education materials for individuals eligible for the program; and  (B)  conduct outreach to individuals who are potentially eligible for the program and who are impacted by a substance use disorder.  (2)  Purpose  The purpose of this subsection is to ensure that individuals participating in the program who are impacted by a substance use disorder receive accurate nutrition education from trained staff in an effective and unbiased manner.  (3)  Nutrition education materials  The Secretary shall collaborate with the Secretary of Health and Human Services to develop appropriate evidence-based nutrition education materials for individuals impacted by a substance use disorder, including—  (A)  nutrition education materials for individuals with substance use disorder during pregnancy and in the postpartum period; and  (B)  nutrition education materials for infants impacted by prenatal substance exposure and neonatal abstinence syndrome.  (4)  Nutrition education clearinghouse The Secretary shall make available to all State agencies through an online clearinghouse any nutrition education and training materials related to nutrition for individuals impacted by a substance use disorder or neonatal abstinence syndrome that have been produced by the Secretary or the Secretary of Health and Human Services (or produced by a State agency and approved by the Secretary), including educational materials developed under paragraph (15) of section 515(b) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 290bb–21(b) ) and guidance issued under section 1005 of the SUPPORT for Patients and Communities Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1396a  note). (5)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $1,000,000 for fiscal year 2022, to remain available until expended.  .  (b)  Conforming amendments Section 17(q) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 ( 42 U.S.C. 1786(q) ), as redesignated by subsection (a) is amended— (1) in paragraph (1), by striking  subsection (o)(1)(A)  and inserting  subsection (p)(1)(A) ; and (2) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking  subsection (o)(1)(A)  and inserting  subsection (p)(1)(A) .
