 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Chester County Reversionary Interest Release Act .
 2.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Agriculture. (2)  State The term  State  means the State of Tennessee. (3)  State forest land The term  State forest land  means the approximately 0.62-acre parcel of land in Chickasaw State Forest that is identified as  State Forest Land  on the map prepared by the Forest Service entitled  State Forest Land Detail Map  and dated October 9, 2018. (4)  Webb property The term  Webb property  means the approximately 0.90-acre parcel of land owned by Kirby and Leta Webb identified as  Webb Property Lot 1  on the map prepared by the Tennessee Division of Forestry entitled  Webb Property Detail Map  and dated October 9, 2018.
 3.  Release of reversionary interest  (a)  Release  To facilitate an exchange of land between the Bethel Baptist Church in Henderson, Tennessee, and the State, the Secretary shall release the reversionary interest of the United States in and to the State forest land described in subsection (b) if, as consideration for the release, the State agrees to transfer to the United States a vested future interest in and to the Webb property that is similar to the reversionary interest described in subsection (b).  (b)  Description of reversionary interest  The reversionary interest referred to in subsection (a) is the reversionary interest of the United States in and to the State forest land that—  (1)  requires that the State forest land be used for public purposes; and  (2)  is contained in a deed—  (A)  granting from the United States to the State the State forest land;  (B)  dated August 12, 1955; and  (C)  registered on page 588 of book 48 of the record of deeds for Chester County, Tennessee. 
 4.  Sale of mineral rights  (a)  In general  Subject to any valid existing rights of third parties, as soon as practicable after the date on which the Secretary determines that the State has complied with the requirements of subsection (b)(2), the Secretary shall convey to the State the undivided mineral interests of the United States in and to the State forest land.  (b)  Terms of conveyance  (1)  In general  Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall determine—  (A)  the mineral character of the State forest land; and  (B)  the fair market value of the mineral interests referred to in subsection (a).  (2)  Payment of costs  As a condition of the conveyance under subsection (a), the State shall pay to the United States—  (A)  any administrative costs incurred by the United States in conveying to the State the mineral interests referred to in subsection (a), including the costs incurred by the Secretary in making the determinations required under paragraph (1); and  (B)  an amount equal to the fair market value of the mineral interests referred to in subsection (a), as determined under paragraph (1)(B). 
