 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Solar Vocational Education and Training for our Servicemembers Act  or the  Solar VETS Act .
 2.  Solar workforce training course for members of the Armed Forces  (a)  Training course  (1)  In general  The Secretary, in collaboration with the Secretary of Defense, shall develop a training course for careers in solar-related occupations to be—  (A)  made available—  (i)  at military installations; and  (ii)  to eligible members of the Armed Forces; and  (B)  administered by institutions of higher education pursuant to an agreement with the Secretary.  (2)  Course components  The training course shall include—  (A)  hands-on, in-person instruction with respect to solar-related occupations;  (B)  assistance with resume preparation;  (C)  assistance with job interview preparation; and  (D)  an examination that results in the receipt of an entry-level certification in solar installation (such as a certification from the North American Board of Certified Energy Practitioners).  (3)  Fees or charges prohibited; reimbursement for examination costs  (A)  Fees or charges  No fee or charge may be assessed to an eligible member of the Armed Forces in connection with the participation of the member in the training course.  (B)  Reimbursement  The Secretary shall reimburse an eligible member of the Armed Forces for the costs of an examination described in paragraph (2)(D) incurred by the member.  (b)  Selection of participating military installations  (1)  In general  The Secretary, in collaboration with the Secretary of Defense, shall select military installations at which the training course will be offered to eligible members of the Armed Forces.  (2)  Considerations  In selecting a military installation, the Secretary shall consider—  (A)  the average number of eligible members of the Armed Forces stationed at the military installation;  (B)  the solar market in the local community near the military installation, including the number of relevant employers and job opportunities; and  (C)  the capability of institutions of higher education located near the military installation to administer the training course.  (c)  Agreement with institution of higher education  For each military installation at which the training course is to be offered, the Secretary shall enter into an agreement with an institution of higher education located near the military installation under which the institution shall administer the training course.  (d)  Outreach  The Secretary, in collaboration with the Secretary of Defense, shall ensure that—  (1)  commanders at military installations are aware of the availability of the training course; and  (2)  installation transition offices inform eligible members of the Armed Forces about the training course.  (e)  Definitions  In this section, the following definitions apply:  (1)  Eligible member of the Armed Forces The term  eligible member of the Armed Forces  means a member of the Armed Forces that— (A)  has completed at least 180 days on active duty in the Armed Forces; and  (B)  is expected to be discharged or released from active duty in the Armed Forces within 180 days of the date of commencement of participation in the training course.  (2)  Institution of higher education The term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given that term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001 ). (3)  Military installation The term  military installation  means a military installation that is located within any of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, the Virgin Islands of the United States, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, or Guam. (4)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Energy. (5)  Training course The term  training course  means the training course developed under subsection (a).
