 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Save America’s Forgotten Equines Act of 2021  or the  SAFE Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Prohibition on shipping, transporting, moving, delivering, receiving, possessing, purchasing, selling, or donation of horses and other equines for slaughter for human consumption  (a)  Definitions Section 2 of the Horse Protection Act ( 15 U.S.C. 1821 ) is amended— (1)  by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (4) as paragraphs (2), and (5), respectively;  (2)  by inserting before paragraph (2), as so redesignated, the following new paragraph:  (1) The term  human consumption  means ingestion by people as a source of food. ; and  (3)  by inserting after paragraph (3), as so redesignated, the following new paragraph:  (4) The term  slaughter  means the killing of one or more horses or other equines with the intent to sell or trade the flesh of such horses or equines for human consumption. .  (b)  Findings Section 3 of the Horse Protection Act ( 15 U.S.C. 1822 ) is amended— (1)  by redesignating paragraphs (1) through (5) as paragraphs (6) through (10), respectively;  (2)  by inserting before paragraph (6), as so redesignated, the following new paragraphs:  (1)  horses and other equines play a vital role in the collective experience of the United States and deserve protection and compassion;  (2)  horses and other equines are domestic animals that are used primarily for recreation, pleasure, work, and sport;  (3)  unlike cows, pigs, and many other animals, horses and other equines are not raised for the purpose of being slaughtered for human consumption;  (4)  individuals selling horses or other equines at auctions are seldom aware that the animals may be bought for the purpose of being slaughtered for human consumption;  ; and  (3)  by striking paragraph (8), as so redesignated, and inserting the following new paragraph:  (8)  the shipping, transporting, moving, delivering, receiving, possessing, purchasing, selling, or donation in intrastate commerce of horses and other equines to be slaughtered for human consumption, adversely affects and burdens interstate and foreign commerce;  .  (c)  Prohibition Section 5 of the Horse Protection Act ( 15 U.S.C. 1824 ) is amended— (1)  by redesignating paragraphs (8) through (11) as paragraphs (9) through (12), respectively; and  (2)  by inserting after paragraph (7) the following new paragraph:  (8)  The shipping, transporting, moving, delivering, receiving, possessing, purchasing, selling, or donation by a person of any horse or other equine that the person has reason to believe will be slaughtered for human consumption.  . 
