
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  State Allowance for a Variety of Exchanges Act of 2021  or the  SAVE Act of 2021 .
  2.  Preserving State option to implement health care Marketplaces   (a)  In general Section 1311 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( 42 U.S.C. 18031 ) is amended—
 (1)  in subsection (a)—   (A) in paragraph (4)(B), by striking  under this subsection  and inserting  under this paragraph or paragraph (1) ; and
 (B)  by adding at the end the following new paragraph:    (6)  Additional planning and establishment grants   (A)  In general  There shall be appropriated to the Secretary, out of any moneys in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $200 million to award grants to eligible States for the uses described in paragraph (3). 
 (B)  Duration and renewability  A grant awarded under subparagraph (A) shall be for a period of 2 years and may not be renewed.   (C)  Limitation  A grant may not be awarded under subparagraph (A) after December 31, 2024. 
 (D)  Eligible State defined For purposes of this paragraph, the term  eligible State  means a State that, as of January 1, 2019, was not operating an Exchange (other than an Exchange described in section 155.200(f) of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations). ; and   (2)  in subsection (d)(5)(A)— 
 (A) by striking  operations.— In establishing an Exchange under this section and inserting  operations.— 
 (i)  In general  In establishing an Exchange under this section (other than in establishing an Exchange with respect to which a grant is awarded under subsection (a)(6))  ; and   (B)  by adding at the end the following: 

 (ii)  Additional planning and establishment grants  In establishing an Exchange with respect to which a grant is awarded under subsection (a)(6), the State shall ensure that such Exchange is self-sustaining beginning on January 1, 2026, including allowing the Exchange to charge assessments or user fees to participating health insurance issuers, or to otherwise generate funding, to support its operations.  .   (b)  Clarification regarding failure To establish Exchange or implement requirements Section 1321(c) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( 42 U.S.C. 18041(c) ) is amended—
 (1) in paragraph (1), by striking  If  and inserting  Subject to paragraph (3), if ; and  (2)  by adding at the end the following new paragraph: 

 (3)  Clarification  This subsection shall not apply in the case of a State that elects to apply the requirements described in subsection (a) and satisfies the requirement described in subsection (b) on or after January 1, 2014.  . 
 