 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protecting Children From Experimentation Act of 2021 .
 2.  Gender reassignment medical interventions on minors prohibited  Chapter 110  of title 18, United States Code, is amended— (1)  by adding at the end the following:   2260B.  Gender reassignment medical interventions on minors  (a)  In general  Whoever knowingly performs any gender reassignment medical intervention on a minor shall be fined under this title or imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.   (b)  Prohibition on prosecution of person on whom intervention is performed  No person on whom the gender reassignment medical intervention under subsection (a) is performed may be arrested or prosecuted for an offense under this section.  (c)  Civil action  A person on whom a gender reassignment medical intervention is performed under this section may bring a civil action for appropriate relief against each person who performed the gender reassignment medical intervention.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Gender reassignment medical intervention  (A)  In general For purposes of this chapter, except as provided in subparagraph (B), the term  gender reassignment medical intervention  means— (i)  performing a surgery that sterilizes an individual, including castration, vasectomy, hysterectomy, oophorectomy, metoidioplasty, penectomy, phalloplasty, and vaginoplasty, to change the body of such individual to correspond to a sex that is discordant with biological sex;  (ii)  performing a mastectomy on an individual for the purpose described in clause (i); or  (iii)  administering or supplying to an individual medications for the purpose described in clause (i), including—  (I)  GnRH agonists or other puberty-blocking drugs to stop or delay normal puberty;  (II)  testosterone or other an­dro­gens to biological females at doses that are supraphysiologic to the female sex; or  (III)  estrogen to biological males at doses that are su­pra­phy­si­o­log­ic to the male sex.  (B)  Exception  Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to the following individuals:  (i)  An individual with external biological sex characteristics that are irresolvably ambiguous, such as those born with 46 XX chromosomes with virilization, 46 XY chromosomes with undervirilization, or having both ovarian and testicular tissue.  (ii)  An individual with respect to whom a physician has determined through genetic or biochemical testing that the individual does not have normal sex chromosome structure, sex steroid hormone production, or sex steroid hormone action for a biological male or biological female.  (2)  Minor The term  minor  means any person under the age of eighteen years.
 ; and  (2)  by amending the table of sections for such chapter by adding at the end the following:  2260B. Gender reassignment medical interventions on minors.  . 
