 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Ground-Based Augmentation Systems in the National Airspace System Implementation Act  or the  GBAS Act .
 2.  Ground-based augmentation systems implementation  (a)  In general  Section 44502 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:  (g)  Implementation of ground-Based augmentation systems  (1)  In general  Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish procedures, criteria, and grant programs necessary for deploying GBAS equipment and avionics at United States airports and in aircraft operated by air carriers in the United States approving categories of instrument approaches and maintaining GBAS.  (2)  Funding  (A)  To airports  The Secretary shall fund up to the 39 busiest airports in the United States, in terms of annual air carrier aircraft operations, to install GBAS equipment as a federally funded navigational aid.  (B)  To air carriers  To the maximum extent practicable and economical, the Secretary shall offer to fund air carriers operating in the United States for the installation and upgrade of GBAS avionics in the regional and air transport aircraft operated by such airports.  (3)  Validation of installations and instrument approaches  The Secretary shall validate the GBAS installations and certify aircraft for categories of instrument approaches.  (4)  Oversight and maintenance  The Secretary shall maintain oversight and control over the operation and maintenance of GBAS at public airports.  (5)  Deadline for installation  To the maximum extent feasible, any installation of GBAS equipment required under this subsection shall be completed not later than 10 years after the date of enactment of this subsection.  (6)  Rule of construction  Nothing in this subsection shall be construed to require the Secretary to decommission the ground-based navigational instrument landing system.  (7)  Report  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this subsection, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report that—  (A)  describes the status of GBAS installation at airports and on aircraft and an estimate of the timeline for completing any remaining installations;  (B)  identifies any funding shortfalls required for the installation of GBAS at airports and on aircraft as well as for projected annual maintenance requirements;   (C)  identifies any further enhancements or upgrades to improve runways landings under all-weather operations; and  (D)  identifies any administrative and legislative actions that would improve the efficiency of the installation, validation, oversight and maintenance of the systems.  (8)  Definition of GBAS In this subsection, the term  GBAS  means ground-based augmentation systems, including ground equipment and avionics. (9)  Authorization of appropriations  (A)  In general  To make grants under this subsection, there is authorized to be appropriated $797,000,000.  (B)  Installation of GBAS  For the procurement and installation of GBAS under paragraph (1), there is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary.  (C)  Administrative expenses  The Secretary may reserve up to 0.5 percent of funds made available to carry out this subsection to cover the costs of additional personnel, contracting, or other costs necessary for the administration of this subsection.   . 
