 1.  Short title This Act may be referred to as the  Combating Online Wildlife Trafficking Act of 2021 .
 2.  Combating wildlife trafficking  (a)  Task Force The Eliminate, Neutralize, and Disrupt Wildlife Trafficking Act of 2016 ( 16 U.S.C. 7601  et seq.) is amended— (1) in section 301 ( 16 U.S.C. 7631 )— (A)  in subsection (d)—  (i) in paragraph (4) by striking  and  at the end; (ii) in paragraph (5) by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and (iii)  by adding at the end the following:  (6)  recommendations for how the Task Force can expand cooperative exchanges with technology and social media companies to combat wildlife trafficking on the internet, including recommendations for—  (A)  identifying how wildlife is trafficked on internet sites and platforms;  (B)  methods for technology companies to assist Federal agencies and international partners to combat wildlife trafficking;   (C)  methods to improve public-private relationships with technology and internet companies to combat wildlife trafficking; and  (D)  identifying correlations between wildlife trafficking and the spread of zoonotic diseases.  ;   (B)  by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); and  (C)  by inserting after subsection (d) the following:  (e)  Technology and Social Media Working Group  (1)  Membership  The Task Force shall form a Technology and Social Media Working Group, which shall be composed of such members of the Task Force as the Task Force determines appropriate and a representative of the Chairman of the Federal Communications Commission, as designated by such Chairman.  (2)  Purpose  Such Technology and Social Media Working Group shall work to address ongoing concerns with wildlife trafficking on the internet.  (3)  Meetings  Such Technology and Social Media Working Group shall convene at least once each year.  ;   (D) in subsection (f) (as redesignated in subparagraph (B)), by striking  shall terminate 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act  and inserting  shall terminate on October 7, 2026 ; and  (2) in section 402 ( 16 U.S.C. 7642 ), by adding at the end the following: (c)  Internet and social media  The Secretary of State and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development, in collaboration with other relevant United States agencies, nongovernmental partners, private sector companies, and international bodies, shall develop a strategy for engaging and partnering with internet and social media companies to combat the spread of wildlife trafficking on the internet.  . 
