 1.  Conveyance of Pleasant Valley Ranger District Administrative Site to Gila County, Arizona  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  County The term  County  means Gila County, Arizona. (2)  Map The term  map  means the map entitled  Pleasant Valley Admin Site Proposal  and dated September 24, 2021. (3)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service. (b)  Conveyance required  Subject to this section, if the County submits to the Secretary a written request for conveyance of the property described in subsection (c) not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall convey to the County all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the property described in subsection (c).  (c)  Property described  (1)  In general The property referred to in subsection (b) is the parcel of real property, including all land and improvements, generally depicted as  Gila County Area  on the map, consisting of approximately 232.9 acres of National Forest System land located in the Tonto National Forest in Arizona. (2)  Map  (A)  Minor errors  The Secretary may correct minor errors in the map.  (B)  Availability  A copy of the map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Forest Service.  (3)  Survey  The exact acreage and legal description of the National Forest System land to be conveyed under subsection (b) shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.   (d)  Terms and conditions  The conveyance under subsection (b) shall be—  (1)  subject to valid existing rights;  (2)  made without consideration;  (3)  made by quitclaim deed; and  (4)  subject to any other terms and conditions as the Secretary considers appropriate to protect the interests of the United States.   (e)  Costs of conveyance  As a condition of the conveyance under subsection (b), the County shall pay all costs associated with the conveyance, including the cost of—  (1)  a survey, if necessary, under subsection (c)(3); and  (2)  any environmental analysis and resource surveys required by Federal law.  (f)  Environmental conditions Not­with­stand­ing section 120(h)(3)(A) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 ( 42 U.S.C. 9620(h)(3)(A) ), the Secretary shall not be required to provide any covenant or warranty for the land and improvements conveyed to the County under subsection (c).
