 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Cybersecurity Opportunity Act .
 2.  Dr. David Satcher Cybersecurity Education Grant Program  (a)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Enrollment of needy students The term  enrollment of needy students  has the meaning given the term in section 312(d) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1058(d) ). (2)  Historically black college or university The term  historically Black college or university  has the meaning given the term  part B institution  as defined in section 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1061 ).  (3)  Institution of higher education The term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001(a) ). (4)  Minority-serving institution The term  minority-serving institution  means an institution listed in section 371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1067q(a) ). (5)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Homeland Security.  (b)  Authorization of grants  (1)  In general  The Secretary shall—  (A)  award grants to assist institutions of higher education that have an enrollment of needy students, historically Black colleges and universities, and minority-serving institutions, to establish or expand cybersecurity programs, to build and upgrade institutional capacity to better support new or existing cybersecurity programs, including cybersecurity partnerships with public and private entities, and to support such institutions on the path to producing qualified entrants in the cybersecurity workforce or becoming a National Center of Academic Excellence in Cybersecurity; and  (B)  award grants to build capacity at institutions of higher education that have an enrollment of needy students, historically Black colleges and universities, and minority-serving institutions, to expand cybersecurity education opportunities, cybersecurity technology and programs, cybersecurity research, and cybersecurity partnerships with public and private entities.   (2)  Reservation  The Secretary shall award not less than 50 percent of the amount available for grants under this Act to historically Black colleges and universities and minority-serving institutions.  (3)  Coordination  The Secretary shall carry out this section in coordination with the National Initiative for Cybersecurity Education at the National Institute of Standards and Technology.   (4)  Sunset  The Secretary's authority to award grants under paragraph (1) shall terminate on the date that is 5 years after the date the Secretary first awards a grant under paragraph (1).   (5)  Amounts to remain available  Notwithstanding section 1552 of title 31, United States Code, or any other provision of law, funds available to the Secretary for obligation for a grant under this section shall remain available for expenditure for 100 days after the last day of the performance period of such grant.   (c)  Applications  An eligible institution seeking a grant under subsection (a) shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require, including a statement of how the institution will use the funds awarded through the grant to expand cybersecurity education opportunities at the eligible institution.  (d)  Activities  An eligible institution that receives a grant under this section may use the funds awarded through such grant for increasing research, education, technical, partnership, and innovation capacity, including for—  (1)  building and upgrading institutional capacity to better support new or existing cybersecurity programs, including cybersecurity partnerships with public and private entities;   (2)  building and upgrading institutional capacity to provide hands-on research and training experiences for undergraduate and graduate students; and  (3)  outreach and recruitment to ensure students are aware of such new or existing cybersecurity programs, including cybersecurity partnerships with public and private entities.   (e)  Reporting requirements  Not later than—  (1)  1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter until the Secretary submits the report under paragraph (2), the Secretary shall prepare and submit to Congress a report on the status and progress of implementation of the grant program under this Act, including on the number and nature of institutions participating, the number and nature of students served by institutions receiving grants, the level of funding provided to grant recipients, the types of activities being funded by the grants program, and plans for future implementation and development; and  (2)  5 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to Congress a report on the status of cybersecurity education programming and capacity-building at institutions receiving grants under this Act, including changes in the scale and scope of these programs, associated facilities, or in accreditation status, and on the educational and employment outcomes of students participating in cybersecurity programs that have received support under this Act.  (f)  Performance metrics  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish performance metrics for grants awarded under this section. 
