 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Promoting Sustainable Energy Projects for Tribal Communities Act of 2021 .
 2.  Elective payment to Indian tribal governments for energy property and electricity produced from certain renewable resources, etc  (a)  In general Subchapter B of  chapter 65  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 6431.  Elective payment to Indian tribal governments for energy property and electricity produced from certain renewable resources, etc  (a)  Energy property  In the case of an Indian tribal government (within the meaning of such term for purposes of section 139E) making an election (at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may provide) under this section with respect to any portion of an energy credit which would (without regard to this section) be determined under section 48 with respect to such taxpayer or any portion of a renewable electricity production credit which would (without regard to this section) be determined under section 45 with respect to such taxpayer, such taxpayer shall be treated as making a payment against the tax imposed by subtitle A for the taxable year equal to the amount of such portion.  (b)  Timing  The payment described in subsection (a) shall be treated as made on the later of the due date of the return of tax for such taxable year or the date on which such return is filed.  (c)  Exclusion from gross income  Gross income of the taxpayer shall be determined without regard to this section.  (d)  Denial of double benefit  Solely for purposes of section 38, in the case of a taxpayer making an election under this section, the energy credit determined under section 45 or the renewable electricity production credit determined under section 48 shall be reduced by the amount of the portion of such credit with respect to which the taxpayer makes such election. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections for subchapter B of chapter 65 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new item:  Sec. 6431. Elective payment to Indian tribal governments for energy property and electricity produced from certain renewable resources, etc.  .  (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to property originally placed in service after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
