 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Laughlin/Bullhead International Airport Land Conveyance Act .
 2.  Land conveyance, Mohave County, Arizona  (a)  Land conveyance required  If, not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the County submits a written request to the Secretary requesting that Federal land be conveyed to the County, the Secretary shall, not later than 1 year after receiving such written request, convey to the County, all right, title, and interest of the United States in and to the Federal land, subject to valid existing rights.  (b)  Map; survey  (1)  Availability of map  The Map shall be kept on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the Bureau of Land Management.  (2)  Minor errors  The Secretary may correct any minor errors in the Map and legal description of the Federal land.  (3)  Survey  The exact acreage and legal description of the Federal land shall be determined by a survey satisfactory to the Secretary.  (c)  Terms and Conditions  (1)  Consideration; quitclaim deed  The conveyance of the Federal land to the County under subsection (a) shall be made without consideration and by quitclaim deed.  (2)  Costs  The Secretary shall require the County to pay all costs associated with the conveyance of the Federal land under subsection (a) as a condition of such conveyance.  (3)  Use  The Federal land conveyed to the County under subsection (a) shall be used only for public purposes by the Mohave County Airport Authority.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  County The term  County  means the Mohave County, Arizona. (2)  Federal land The term  Federal land  means the approximately 10 acres of Federal land under the administrative jurisdiction of the Bureau of Land Management identified on the Map, and any improvements on such land. (3)  Map The term  Map  means the map entitled  Laughlin/Bullhead International Airport, Mohave County, AZ  and dated July 26, 2021. (4)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior.
