 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  No Militarization of Space Act .
 2.  Abolishment of the Space Force as an Armed Force  (a)  In general  As soon as practicable after submitting to the congressional defense committees the report required under subsection (c)(2), but not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense, acting through the Secretary of the Air Force, shall abolish the Space Force as an Armed Force within the Department of the Air Force in accordance with this section.  (b)  Cessation of certain transfer activities  During the period preceding the abolishment of the Space Force pursuant to subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense may not transfer any authorities, duties, functions, missions, personnel, units, facilities, or assets from another Armed Force to the Space Force.  (c)  Plan for transfer  (1)  In general  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall complete the development of a plan to transfer all authorities, duties, functions, missions, personnel, units, facilities, and assets from the Space Force to the appropriate commands of the Armed Forces.   (2)  Report to Congress  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the plan described in paragraph (1).  (d)  Dissolution of the Space Force  (1)  Transfer to Air Force Space Command  Except as provided by paragraph (2), effective upon the abolishment of the Space Force, there are transferred to the Air Force Space Command the authorities, duties, functions, missions, personnel, units, facilities, and assets of the Space Force.  (2)  Transfer outside of Air Force Space Command  Effective upon the abolishment of the Space Force, any authorities, duties, functions, missions, personnel, units, facilities, and assets transferred to the Space Force from a command of an Armed Force other than the Air Force Space Command shall be returned to such other command.   (e)  Repeal of relevant laws  Effective upon the abolishment of the Space Force, the following subtitles are repealed and any provisions of law amended or repealed by such subtitles are restored or revived as if such subtitles had not been enacted:  (1) Subtitle D of title IX of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 ( Public Law 116–92 ). (2) Subtitle C of title IX of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 ( Public Law 116–283 ). (f)  References in law  Effective upon the abolishment of the Space Force, any reference to the Space Force in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be deemed to be a reference to the Air Force Space Command.  (g)  Congressional defense committees defined The term  congressional defense committees  has the meaning given such term in section 101(a)(16) of title 10, United States Code. 
