 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Rural Energy for America Program (REAP) Improvement Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Rural Energy for America Program  (a)  In general Section 9007 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 ( 7 U.S.C. 8107 ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (a)—  (A)  by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively, and indenting appropriately;  (B) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as so redesignated), by striking  The Secretary  and inserting the following: (1)  In general  The Secretary  ;   (C) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), in the matter preceding subparagraph (A) (as so redesignated), by inserting (referred to in this section as the  Program ) after  Program ; and (D)  by adding at the end the following:  (2)  Climate benefits  In carrying out the Program, the Secretary shall promote the reduction of greenhouse gas emissions in projects funded by grants and other financial assistance under the Program.  ;  (2)  in subsection (b)—  (A)  in paragraph (2)—  (i) in subparagraph (D), by striking  and  at the end; (ii)  by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (G); and  (iii)  by inserting after subparagraph (D) the following:  (E)  a producer cooperative;  (F)  a nongovernmental organization; and  ; and  (B)  in paragraph (3)—  (i) in subparagraph (E), by striking  and  at the end; (ii) in subparagraph (F), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and (iii)  by adding at the end the following:  (G)  the potential of the proposed program to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and provide other climate benefits.  ;  (3)  in subsection (c)—  (A)  in paragraph (1)(A)—  (i) in clause (i), in the matter preceding subclause (I), by striking  producers  and inserting  producers, producer cooperatives, electric cooperatives, ; and (ii) in clause (ii), in the matter preceding subclause (I), by striking  producers  and inserting  producers, producer cooperatives, and electric cooperatives ; (B)  in paragraph (2)—  (i) in subparagraph (F), by striking  and  at the end; (ii)  by redesignating subparagraph (G) as subparagraph (H); and  (iii)  by inserting after subparagraph (F) the following:  (G)  the potential of the renewable energy system to reduce greenhouse gas emissions and result in other climate benefits; and  ; and  (C) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking  25 percent  and inserting  50 percent ;  (4)  by redesignating subsections (d), (e), and (f) as subsections (e), (f), and (i), respectively;  (5)  by inserting after subsection (c) the following:  (d)  Streamlined application process  The Office of Rural Development shall develop a streamlined application process, including within each tier described in subsection (c)(4), under which an entity may apply for a grant under subsection (b), financial assistance under subsection (c), or both.  ;  (6)  in subsection (e) (as so redesignated)—  (A) in the subsection heading, by striking  Outreach  and inserting  Outreach, technical assistance, and education ; (B) by striking  that adequate  and inserting the following: that—  (1)  adequate  ;  (C) in paragraph (1) (as so designated), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and (D)  by adding at the end the following:  (2)  outreach, technical assistance, and education is provided to recipients of grants and other financial assistance under the Program relating to integrating renewable energy projects on land shared with crops or livestock.  ;  (7)  by inserting after subsection (f) (as so redesignated) the following:  (g)  Study  (1)  Definition of dual-use energy system In this subsection, the term  dual-use energy system  means a system under which renewable energy production and agricultural production, including crop or animal production, occur together on the same piece of land.  (2)  Study  The Secretary shall carry out a study on dual-use energy systems.  (3)  Report Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of the  Rural Energy for America Program (REAP) Improvement Act of 2021 , the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the study carried out under paragraph (2), which shall include a recommendation as to whether the scope of grants and other financial assistance under the Program should be expanded to cover projects that generate more energy without significantly impacting farm operations or leading to the conversion of existing farm land. (h)  Energy generated  There shall not be any restriction imposed on the quantity of energy that is generated under a project funded by a grant or other financial assistance provided under the Program for the benefit of the recipient of the grant or other financial assistance.  ; and  (8)  in subsection (i) (as so redesignated)—  (A)  in paragraph (1)—  (i) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking  expended—  and all that follows through the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting  expended, $150,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030. ; (ii) by striking  Of the funds  and inserting the following: (A)  In general  Of the funds  ; and  (iii)  by adding at the end the following:  (B)  Additional funds  In addition to amounts made available under subparagraph (A), there is appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section, out of funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $1,000,000,000, to remain available until expended.  ;   (B) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking  paragraph (1)  and inserting  paragraph (1)(A) ; and  (C)  by adding at the end the following:  (4)  Reserve fund  (A)  In general  There is established a reserve fund for the purpose of providing grants and other financial assistance under the Program relating to underutilized renewable energy technologies.  (B)  Funds  For each fiscal year, not less than 15 percent of the funds made available under paragraphs (1)(A) and (3) to carry out this section for that fiscal year shall be transferred to the reserve fund established by subparagraph (A).  .  (b)  Conforming amendments Section 9007 of the Farm Security and Rural Investment Act of 2002 ( 7 U.S.C. 8107 ) is amended by striking  subsection (f)  each place it appears and inserting  subsection (i) .
