 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Convening Operations Assistance for Childcare Heroes Act  or the  COACH Act .
 2.  Child care resource guide The Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 631  et seq.) is amended— (1)  by redesignating section 49 as section 50; and  (2)  by inserting after section 48 the following new section:  49.  Child care resource guide  (a)  In general  Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section and not less frequently than every 5 years thereafter, the Administrator shall publish or update a resource guide, applicable to various business models as determined by the Administrator, for small business concerns operating as child care providers.  (b)  Guidance on small business concern matters  The resource guide required under subsection (a) shall include guidance for such small business concerns related to—  (1)  operations (including marketing and management planning);  (2)  finances (including financial planning, financing, payroll, and insurance);  (3)  compliance with relevant laws (including the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and this Act);  (4)  training and safety (including equipment and materials);  (5)  quality (including eligibility for funding under the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 as an eligible child care provider); and  (6)  any other matters the Administrator determines appropriate.  (c)  Consultation required  Before publication or update of the resource guide required under subsection (a), the Administrator shall consult with the following:  (1)  The Secretary of Health and Human Services.  (2)  Representatives from lead agencies designated under section 658D of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990.  (3)  Representatives from local or regional child care resource and referral organizations described in section 658E(c)(3)(B)(iii)(I) of the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990.  (4)  Any other relevant entities as determined by the Administrator.  (d)  Publication and dissemination required  (1)  Publication  The Administrator shall publish the resource guide required under subsection (a) in English and in the 10 most commonly spoken languages, other than English, in the United States, which shall include Mandarin, Cantonese, Japanese, and Korean. The Administrator shall make each translation of the resource guide available on a publicly accessible website of the Administration.  (2)  Distribution  (A)  Administrator  The Administrator shall distribute the resource guide required under subsection (a) to offices within the Administration, including district offices, and to the persons consulted under subsection (c).  (B)  Other entities  Women’s business centers (as described under section 29), small business development centers, chapters of the Service Corps of Retired Executives (established under section 8(b)(1)(B)), and Veteran Business Outreach Centers (as described under section 32) shall distribute to small business concerns operating as child care providers, sole proprietors operating as child care providers, and child care providers that have limited administrative capacity, as determined by the Administrator—  (i)  the resource guide required under subsection (a); and  (ii)  other resources available that the Administrator determines to be relevant. 
 .  
