 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Department of Energy Coastal Research Initiative Act . 
 2.  Coastal zone research initiative Section 306 of the Department of Energy Research and Innovation Act ( 42 U.S.C. 18644 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (e)  Coastal zone research initiative  (1)  In general  The Director shall carry out a research program, in consultation with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, to enhance the understanding of coastal ecosystems. In carrying out this program, the Director shall prioritize efforts to enhance the collection of observational data, and shall develop models to analyze the ecological, biogeochemical, hydrological and physical processes that interact in coastal zones.  (2)  National system for coastal data collection  The Director shall establish, in consultation with the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration and other relevant agencies, an integrated system of geographically diverse field research sites in order to improve the quantity and quality of observational data, and that encompass the major land water interfaces of the United States, including—  (A)  the Great Lakes region;  (B)  the Pacific coast;  (C)  the Atlantic coast;  (D)  the Arctic; and  (E)  the Gulf coast.  (3)  Existing infrastructure  In carrying out the programs and establishing the field research sites under paragraphs (1) and (2), the Secretary shall leverage existing research and development infrastructure supported by the Department, including the Department’s existing marine and coastal research lab.  (4)  Coordination  For the purposes of carrying out the programs and establishing the field research sites under the Initiative, the Secretary may enter into agreements with Federal Departments and agencies with complementary capabilities.  (5)  Report Not less than 2 years after the date of the enactment of the  Department of Energy Coastal Research Initiative Act , the Director shall provide to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate a report examining whether the system described in this section should be established as a National User Facility. . 
