 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Energy Equity Act of 2021 .
 2.  Office of Energy Equity  (a)  In general Title II of the Department of Energy Organization Act ( 42 U.S.C. 7131  et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following: 218.  Office of Energy Equity  (a)  Establishment There is established within the Department an Office of Energy Equity (referred to in this section as the  Office ). The Office shall be headed by a Director, who shall be appointed by the Secretary and compensated at a rate equal to that of level IV of the Executive Schedule under section 5315 of title 5, United States Code. (b)  Duties of the Director The Director, in accordance with Executive Order 12898 ( 42 U.S.C. 4321  note) and the purposes of this Act, shall provide, direct, foster, coordinate, and implement energy planning, education, management, conservation, and delivery programs of the Department that— (1)  promote an agency-wide environmental justice strategy and interagency collaboration;  (2)  reduce or stabilize energy costs within underserved or disadvantaged communities; and   (3)  increase the availability of energy conservation measures within underserved or disadvantaged communities.  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Energy conservation measures The term  energy conservation measures  means measures that improve energy efficiency, energy conservation, or access to renewable energy sources, including retrofit activities. (2)  Underserved or disadvantages community The term  underserved or disadvantaged community  means— (A)  a community located in a ZIP Code that includes a census tract that is identified as—  (i)  a low-income community; or  (ii)  a community of color; or  (B)  any other community that the Secretary determines is disproportionately vulnerable to, or bears a disproportionate burden of, any combination of economic, social, and environmental stressors.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025. 
 .  (b)  Conforming amendment  The table of contents of the Department of Energy Organization Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 217 the following:  Sec. 218. Office of Energy Equity.  . 
