 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Afghanistan Withdrawal Threat Assessment Act .
 2.  Threat assessment of terrorist threats posed by prisoners released by Taliban in Afghanistan  (a)  Threat assessment  (1)  In general  The Secretary of Homeland Security, in coordination with the heads of other relevant departments or agencies, shall conduct a threat assessment of terrorist threats to the United States posed by the prisoners released by the Taliban from the Pul-e-Charkhi Prison and Parwan Detention Facility in Afghanistan.   (2)  Elements  The assessment required under paragraph (1) shall include the following:  (A)  With respect to the prisoners released by the Taliban from the Pul-e-Charkhi Prison and Parwan Detention Facility in Afghanistan, information relating to—  (i)  the number of such prisoners who were released;  (ii)  the country of origin for each such prisoner; and  (iii)  any affiliation with a foreign terrorist organization for each such prisoner.  (B)  The capability of the Department of Homeland Security to identify, track, and monitor such prisoners and any associated challenges with such capability.  (C)  Any action of the Department with respect to—  (i)  mitigating the terrorist threats to the United States posed by such prisoners; and  (ii)  preventing such prisoners from entering the United States.  (b)  Congressional notification  Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall—  (1)  submit to the appropriate congressional committees the threat assessment required under subsection (a); and  (2)  provide a briefing to the appropriate congressional committees on such assessment.  (c)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Appropriate congressional committees The term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (A)  the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives; and  (B)  the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.  (2)  Foreign terrorist organization The term  foreign terrorist organization  means an organization designated as a foreign terrorist organization under section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1189 ).
