 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Border Visibility and Security Act .
 2.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Commissioner The term  Commissioner  means the Commissioner of U.S. Customs and Border Protection. (2)  Operational control The term  operational control  has the meaning given such term in section 2(b) of the Secure Fence Act of 2006 ( 8 U.S.C. 1701  note;  Public Law 109–367 ). (3)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Homeland Security. (4)  Situational awareness The term  situational awareness  has the meaning given such term in section 1092(a)(7) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 ( Public Law 114–328 ).
 3.  Strengthening the requirements for border security technology along the southern border Section 102 of the Illegal Immigration Reform and Immigrant Responsibility Act of 1996 (division C of  Public Law 104–208 ;  8 U.S.C. 1103  note) is amended— (1)  in subsection (a)—  (A) by inserting  and border technology  before  in the vicinity of ; and (B) by striking  illegal crossings in areas of high illegal entry into the United Sates  and inserting  , impede, and detect illegal activity and entry into the United States ; (2)  in subsection (b)—  (A) in the heading by striking  road improvements  and inserting  navigable roads ; and (B)  by adding at the end the following new paragraph:  (5)  Additional navigable roads along the southwest border  (A)  Navigable road defined In this subsection, the term  navigable road  means a contiguous, navigable road. (B)  Navigable roads  In carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall construct a navigable road along not less than 700 miles of the southwest border where most practical and effective to gain operational control of the southwest border.  (C)  Priority areas  In carrying out this paragraph, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall—  (i)  identify the 700 miles, or other mileage determined by the Secretary, along the southwest border where a navigable road would be most practical and effective in deterring smugglers and aliens attempting to gain illegal entry into the United States; and  (ii)  not later than December 31, 2021, complete construction of a navigable road along the miles identified under clause (i).  (D)  Consultation  (i)  In general  In carrying out this paragraph, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall consult with the Secretary of the Interior, the Secretary of Agriculture, States, local governments, Indian Tribes, and property owners in the United States to minimize the impact on the environment, culture, commerce, and quality of life for the communities and residents located near the sites at which navigable roads are to be constructed.  (ii)  Savings provision  Nothing in this subparagraph may be construed to—  (I)  create or negate any right of action for a State, local government, Indian Tribe, or other person or entity affected by this subsection; or  (II)  affect the eminent domain laws of the United States or of any State.  ;  (3) in subsection (c)(1), by inserting  and, pursuant to subsection (d), the installation, operation, and maintenance of technology,  after  barriers and roads ; and (4)  by adding at the end the following new subsections:  (e)  Installation, operation, and maintenance of technology  (1)  In general  Not later than January 20, 2022, the Secretary of Homeland Security, in carrying out subsection (a), shall deploy the most practical and effective technology available along the United States border for achieving situational awareness and operational control of the border.  (2)  Technology defined In this subparagraph, the term  technology  includes border surveillance and detection technology, including— (A)  radar surveillance systems;  (B)  Vehicle and Dismount Exploitation Radars (VADER);  (C)  3-dimensional, seismic acoustic detection and ranging border tunneling detection technology;  (D)  sensors;  (E)  unmanned cameras;  (F)  man-portable and mobile vehicle-mounted unmanned aerial vehicles; and  (G)  any other devices, tools, or systems found to be more effective or advanced than those specified in subparagraphs (A) through (F).  (f)  Definitions In this section, the term  situational awareness  has the meaning given the term in section 1092(a)(7) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 ( Public Law 114–328 ). . 
 4.  Comprehensive southern border strategy  (a)  In general  Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate a comprehensive Southern border strategy.  (b)  Contents  The strategy submitted under subsection (a) shall include—  (1)  a list of known physical barriers, technologies, tools, and other devices that can be used to achieve and maintain situational awareness and operational control along the southern border;  (2)  a projected per mile cost estimate for each physical barrier, technology, tool, and other device included on the list required under paragraph (1);  (3)  a detailed account of which type of physical barrier, technology, tool, or other device the Department believes is necessary to achieve and maintain situational awareness and operational control for each linear mile of the southern border;  (4)  an explanation for why such physical barrier, technology, tool, or other device was chosen to achieve and maintain situational awareness and operational control for each linear mile of the southern border, including—  (A)  the methodology used to determine which type of physical barrier, technology, tool, or other device was chosen for such linear mile;  (B)  an examination of existing manmade and natural barriers for each linear mile of the southern border; and  (C)  the information collected and evaluated from—  (i)  the appropriate U.S. Customs and Border Protection Sector Chief;  (ii)  the Joint Task Force Commander;  (iii)  the appropriate State Governor;  (iv)  local law enforcement officials;  (v)  private property owners; and  (vi)  other affected stakeholders;  (5)  a per mile cost calculation for each linear mile of the southern border given the type of physical barrier, technology, tool, or other device chosen to achieve and maintain operational control for each linear mile; and  (6)  a cost justification for each time a more expensive physical barrier, technology, tool, or other device is chosen over a less expensive option, as established by the per mile cost estimates required in paragraph (2). 
 5.  Eradication of cane along the Rio Grande river  (a)  In general  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall take such actions as may be necessary, including through cooperation with appropriate Federal and State agencies, to permanently eradicate the cane, or Arundo donax, that grows along the Rio Grande river.  (b)  Prohibition on additional funding  No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section. This section shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized. 
 6.  Funding  (a)  Use of certain forfeited criminal proceeds for border security measures Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any illegally obtained profits resulting from any criminal drug trafficking enterprise led by Joaquin Archivaldo Guzman Loera (commonly known as  El Chapo ), which are criminally forfeited to the United States Government as a result of the conviction of Mr. Guzman Loera in Federal district court, shall be reserved for security measures along the border between the United States and Mexico, including to carry out this Act and the amendments made by this Act, for the purpose of furthering the Nation’s security. (b)  Use of forfeited criminal proceeds of other convicted cartel members  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, any funds that are criminally forfeited to the United States Government as the result of a felony conviction in a Federal district court of a member of a drug cartel—an individual engaging in a continuing criminal enterprise involving knowingly and intentionally distributing a controlled substance, intending and knowing that such substance would be unlawfully imported into the United States from a place outside of the United States—shall be reserved for security measures along the border between the United States and Mexico, including to carry out this Act and the amendments made by this Act, for the purpose of furthering the Nation’s security. 
