 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Working Families Childcare Access Act of 2021  or the  WFCA Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Additional expenses included in dependent care assistance programs  (a)  In general  Section 129(e)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended— (1) in paragraph (1), by striking  or provision of, those  and inserting  or provision of, qualified adoption expenses (within the meaning of section 137(d)), qualified sports expenses, qualified tutoring expenses, qualifying art expenses, or those , and  (2)  by adding at the end the following new paragraphs:   (10)  Qualified sports expenses The term  qualified sports expenses  means expenses paid or incurred for the participation or instruction of a dependent in a program of physical exercise or physical activity. (11)  Qualified tutoring expenses The term  qualified tutoring expenses  means expenses paid or incurred for the participation or instruction of a dependent in virtual or in-person— (A)  individual academic tutoring, or  (B)  small-group academic tutoring in a group of four students or fewer.  (12)  Qualified art expenses The term  qualified art expenses  means expenses paid or incurred for the participation or instruction of a dependent in a program of music or art.  .  (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021. 
 3.  Dependent care expenses allowed for children and dependents up to age 15  (a)  In general  Section 129(e)(1)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as amended by section 1, is amended— (1) by striking  or provision of, qualified adoption expenses  and inserting  or provision of, with respect to a qualifying individual, qualified adoption expenses ,  (2) by striking  The term  and inserting the following: (A)  In general  The term  , and   (3)  by adding at the end the following:   (B)  Special rule For purposes of subparagraph (A), the term  qualifying individual  has the meaning given in paragraph (1) of section 21(b), except such paragraph shall be applied by substituting  age 15  for  age 13 .  .  (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021. 
 4.  Carry forward of unused benefits  (a)  In general  Section 129(d)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:  (10)  Benefit carry forward rules  (A)  In general  A plan meets the requirements of this paragraph if it provides for the automatic carry forward from the close of a plan year to the succeeding plan year of any aggregate unused contributions totaling $20 or greater.   (B)  Small balances  For purposes of subparagraph (A), if an eligible employee carries a balance of less than $20 at the end of a plan year, such employee may elect to carry forward such balance to the next plan year or, if such employee makes no election, such balance may be forfeited.  (C)  Exclusion from gross income  No amount shall be included in gross income under this chapter by reason of any carry forward under this paragraph.   (D)  Coordination limits  The maximum amount which may be contributed to a dependent care assistance flexible spending arrangement for any year to which an unused amount is carried under this paragraph shall not be reduced by such unused amount.   .  (b)  Conforming amendment  Section 125(d)(2) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:   (E)  Exception for dependent care assistance flexible spending arrangements  Subparagraph (A) shall not apply to a dependent care assistance flexible spending arrangement which conforms to the benefit carry forward rules of section 129(d)(10).   .  (c)  Effective date  The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021. 
 5.  Increase of benefits for dependent care assistance programs  (a)  In general  Section 129(a)(2)(A)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  $5,000 ($2,500  and inserting  $15,000 ($7,500 .  (b)  Effective date  The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021.  
