
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Honoring Abbas Family Legacy to Terminate Drunk Driving Act of 2021 .
  2.  Advanced drunk driving prevention technology   (a)  Requirements   (1)  Motor vehicle safety standard  Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall issue an advanced notice of proposed rulemaking to initiate a rulemaking to prescribe a motor vehicle safety standard under section 30111 of title 49, United States Code, that requires passenger motor vehicles manufactured after the effective date of such standard to be equipped with advanced drunk driving prevention technology.  
 (2)  Notice and comment  Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall issue a notice of proposed rulemaking in order to continue the rulemaking proceeding required by paragraph (1).   (3)  Final rule   (A)  Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prescribe a final rule containing the motor vehicle safety standard required under this subsection. The final rule shall specify an effective date that provides at least 2 years, and no more than 3 years, to allow for manufacturing compliance. 
 (B)  If the Secretary determines that a new motor vehicle safety standard required under this subsection cannot meet the requirements and considerations set forth in subsections (a) and (b) of section 30111 of title 49, United States Code, the Secretary shall submit a report to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science and Transportation of the Senate describing the reasons for not prescribing such a standard.   (b)  Development  The Secretary shall work directly with manufacturers of passenger motor vehicles, suppliers, safety advocates, and other interested parties, including universities with expertise in automotive engineering, to— 
 (1)  accelerate the development of the advanced drunk driving prevention technology required to prescribe a motor vehicle safety standard described in subsection (a); and   (2)  ensure the integration of such technology into passenger motor vehicles available for sale at the earliest practicable date. 
 (c)  Definitions  In this section—   (1) the term  advanced drunk driving prevention technology  means a passive system which—
 (A)  monitors a driver’s performance to identify impairment of a driver;   (B)  a system which passively detects a blood alcohol level equal to and exceeding .08 blood alcohol content; or 
 (C)  a similar system which detects impairment and prevents or limits vehicle operation;   (2) the term  motor vehicle safety standard  has the meaning given such term in section 30102 of title 49, United States Code; and
 (3) the term  passenger motor vehicle  has the meaning given such term in section 32101 of title 49, United States Code. 
 