 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Higher Education Endowment Tax Reform Act .
 2.  Phaseout of investment income excise tax for private colleges and universities providing sufficient grants and scholarships  (a)  In general  Section 4968  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: (e)  Phaseout for institutions providing qualified aid  (1)  In general  The amount of tax imposed by subsection (a) (determined without regard to this subsection) shall be reduced (but not below zero) by the amount which bears the same ratio to such amount of tax (as so determined) as—  (A)  the excess (if any) of—  (i)  the aggregate amount of qualified aid awards provided by the institution to its first-time, full-time undergraduate students for academic periods beginning during the taxable year, over  (ii)  an amount equal to 20 percent of the aggregate undergraduate tuition and fees received by the institution from first-time, full-time undergraduate students for such academic periods, bears to  (B)  an amount equal to 13 percent of such aggregate undergraduate tuition and fees so received.  (2)  Institution must meet reporting requirement  (A)  In general  Paragraph (1) shall not apply to an applicable educational institution for a taxable year unless such institution furnishes to the Secretary, and makes widely available, a statement detailing the average aggregate amount of Federal student loans received by a student for attendance at the institution, averaged among each of the following groups of first-time, full-time undergraduate students who during the taxable year completed a course of study for which the institution awarded a baccalaureate degree:  (i)  All such students.  (ii)  The students who have been awarded a Federal Pell Grant under subpart 1 of part A of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 for attendance at the institution.  (iii)  The students who received work-study assistance under part C of title IV of such Act for attendance at such institution.  (iv)  The students who were provided such Federal student loans.  (B)  Form and manner for report  Such statement shall be furnished at such time and in such form and manner, and made widely available, under such regulations or guidance as the Secretary may prescribe.  (C)  Federal student loans For purposes of this paragraph, the term  Federal student loans  means a loan made under part D of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965, except such term does not include a Federal Direct PLUS Loan made on behalf of a dependent student. (3)  Other definitions  For purposes of this subsection—  (A)  First-time, full-time undergraduate student The term  first-time, full-time undergraduate student  shall have the same meaning as when used in section 132 of the Higher Education Act of 1965. (B)  Qualified aid awards The term  qualified aid awards  means, with respect to any applicable educational institution, grants and scholarships to the extent used for undergraduate tuition and fees.  (C)  Undergraduate tuition and fees The term  undergraduate tuition and fees  means, with respect to any institution, the tuition and fees required for the enrollment or attendance of a student as an undergraduate student at the institution. .  (b)  Effective date  The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after …. 
 3.  Inflation adjustment and clarification for definition of applicable educational institution  (a)  Inflation adjustment to per student asset threshold  Section 4968(b)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: (3)  Inflation adjustment  In the case of any taxable year beginning after 2022, the dollar amount in paragraph (1)(D) shall be increased by an amount equal to—  (A)  such dollar amount, multiplied by  (B) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which the taxable year begins, determined by substituting  calendar year 2021  for  calendar year 2016  in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof. If any increase determined under this paragraph is not a multiple of $1,000, such increase shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of $1,000.  .  (b) Clarification of  500  student thresholdSection 4968(b)(1)(A) of such Code is amended by inserting  below the graduate level  after  500 tuition-paying students .  (c)  Effective date  The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2021. 
