 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protections for Student Veterans Act .
 2.  Establishment of protections for a member of the Armed Forces who leaves a course of education, paid for with certain educational assistance, to perform certain service  (a)  Establishment  Chapter 36  of title 38, United States Code, amended by inserting after section 3691 the following new section: 3691A.  Withdrawal or leave of absence from certain education  (a)  In general  (1)  Withdrawal or leave of absence  A covered member may, after receiving orders to enter a period of covered service, withdraw or take a leave of absence from covered education.  (2)  Prohibition on adverse action  The institution concerned may not take any adverse action against a covered member on the basis that such covered member withdraws or takes a leave of absence under paragraph (1). Adverse actions include the following:  (A)  The assignment of a failing grade to a covered member for covered education.  (B)  The reduction of the grade point average of a covered member for covered education.  (C)  The characterization of any absence of a covered member from covered education as unexcused.  (D)  The assessment of any financial penalty against a covered member.  (b)  Withdrawal  If a covered member withdraws from covered education under subsection (a), the institution concerned shall refund all tuition and fees (including payments for housing) for the academic term from which the covered servicemember withdraws.  (c)  Leave of absence  If a covered member takes a leave of absence from covered education under subsection (a), the institution concerned shall—  (1) assign a grade of  incomplete  (or equivalent) to the covered member for covered education for the academic term from which the covered member takes such leave of absence; and (2)  to the extent practicable, permit the covered member, upon completion of the period covered service, to complete such academic term.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  covered education  means a course of education— (A)  at an institution of higher education; and  (B)  paid for with educational assistance furnished under a law administered by the Secretary.  (2) The term  covered member  means a member of the Armed Forces (including the reserve components) enrolled in covered education. (3) The term  covered service  means— (A)  active service or inactive-duty training, as such terms are defined in section 101 of title 10; or  (B)  State active duty, as defined in section 4303 of this title.  (4) The term  institution concerned  means, with respect to a covered member, the institution of higher education where the covered member is enrolled in covered education. (5) The term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given such term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001 ). (6) The term  period of covered service  means the period beginning on the date on which a covered member enters covered service and ending on the date on which the covered member is released from covered service or dies while in covered service.
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of contents at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3691 the following new item:  3691A.Withdrawal or leave of absence from certain education.  . 
