 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Analyzing Disaster Vulnerabilites and Applicable National Capabilities for Emergencies Act  or the  ADVANCE Act .
 2.  National hazard preparation and response exercises  (a)  Requirement  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and not less frequently than twice every year thereafter, the Secretary, in coordination with the Secretary of Energy, shall conduct an exercise to test the modeling, simulation, and analysis capabilities and their utility for emergency response of the United States with respect to significant natural disasters or public health emergencies impacting critical infrastructure.   (b)  Planning and preparation  Each exercise under paragraph (1) shall be coordinated through NISAC and the National Laboratories.   (c)  Participants  (1)  Federal Government participants  The following shall participate in each exercise under subsection (a):  (A)  Relevant interagency partners, as determined by the Secretary.  (B)  Senior leader representatives from sector-specific agencies, as determined by the Secretary.  (2)  State and local governments  The Secretary shall invite representatives from State and local governments to participate in the exercises under subsection (a) if the Secretary determines such participation to be appropriate.  (d)  Elements  Each exercise under subsection (a) shall include the following elements:  (1)  Testing the capability of NISAC to perform modeling, simulation, and analysis to inform the significant natural disaster and public health emergency response of the United States with respect to impact on critical infrastructure, including the outbreak of infectious diseases, extreme weather events, or the overlapping combination of such outbreak or such weather event.  (2)  Testing of the relevant policy, guidance, and doctrine.   (3)  Testing of the information-sharing needs and systems.  (4)  Testing the coordination between Federal, State, and local governments.  (e)  Report  (1)  In general  Not later than 60 days after the date on which each exercise under subsection (a) is conducted, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on each such exercise.  (2)  Matters included  The report required under paragraph (1) shall include information relating to the following:  (A)  A list of the entities participating in an exercise required under subsection (a).  (B)  An assessment of overall performance during such an exercise.  (C)  A description of lessons learned from such an exercise, including—  (i)  gaps and limitations that require improvement; and  (ii)  recommendations with respect to planned changes to training. 
 3.  Annual report to Congress relating to the impact of natural disasters or public health emergencies with respect to critical infrastructure  (a)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report describing the impact of natural disasters and public health emergencies with respect to critical infrastructure.   (b)  Matters included  The report required under paragraph (1) shall include information relating to the following:  (1)  An assessment of the most concerning threats to critical infrastructure from natural disasters or public health emergencies, including the severity and probability of a threat to each critical infrastructure from each type of natural disaster.  (2)  An assessment relating to short-term and long-term damage that may result to each critical infrastructure from each type of natural disaster or public health emergency.  (3)  A description of the modeling tools and human capacity of NISAC to be utilized to inform emergency preparedness, and any changes to such tools and capacity since the previous report.   (4)  An assessment of modeling tools that may best inform the Federal Government with respect to cascading effects on infrastructure, transportation, public health, and the economy.   (5)  Recommendations of modeling, simulation, and training opportunities that may require further investment and maturation with respect to additional consultation and analysis, including—  (A)  DHS-CISA-NRMC and peer review;  (B)  interagency consultation, as appropriate;  (C)  cost-effectiveness; and  (D)  consideration of the tools that can best inform the United States government understanding of cascading effects on infrastructure, transportation, the economy, and public health. 
 4.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Appropriate congressional committees The term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (A)  the Committee on Homeland Security, the Committee on Energy and Commerce, the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives; and  (B)  the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation, and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.  (2)  CISA The term  CISA  means the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department of Homeland Security. (3)  Critical Infrastructure  The term  critical infrastructure  has the meaning given that term in section 5195c(e) of title 42, United States Code. (4)  DHS The term  DHS  means the Department of Homeland Security. (5)  National laboratories The term  National Laboratories  means the United States Department of Energy National Laboratories and Technology Centers.  (6)  NISAC The term  NISAC  means the National Infrastructure Simulation and Analysis Center.  (7)  NRMC The term  NRMC  means the National Risk Management Center of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency.  (8)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Homeland Security. (9)  Sector-specific agency The term  sector-specific agency  has the meaning given the term  Sector-Specific Agency  in section 2201 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 ( 6 U.S.C. 651 ). (10)  State The term  State  has the meaning given the term in section 311 of title 5, United States Code.
