 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Space Infrastructure Act . 
 2.  Space systems, services, and technology as critical infrastructure  (a)  In general  Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary shall designate space systems, services, and technology as a critical infrastructure sector.  (b)  Guidance  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary, in consultation with relevant agencies and departments of the Federal Government, the Assistant to the President for Homeland Security and Counterterrorism, relevant Federal advisory committees, and the Executive Director, shall issue guidance with respect to designating space systems, services, and technology as critical infrastructure, including—  (1)  defining the scope of such sector, with consideration of satellites and space vehicles, space-related terrestrial systems and launch infrastructure, space-related production facilities, and applicable information technology;   (2)  designating a Sector-Specific Agency for space systems, services, and technology; and  (3)  identifying appropriate committees and advisories to accompany such sector, including Government Coordinating Councils and Sector Coordinating Councils.   (c)  Report  Not later than 90 days after the Secretary issues guidance pursuant to subsection (b), the Secretary shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report relating to the following:  (1)  The implementation of such guidance required under subsection (b).  (2)  Any other information the Secretary determines appropriate.  (d)  Conforming amendments Section 2001(3) of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 ( 6 U.S.C. 601(3) ) is amended— (1)  by redesignating subparagraphs (O), (P), and (Q) as (P), (Q), and (R), respectively; and  (2)  by inserting the following new subparagraph:   (O)  Space systems, services, and technology.  .  (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Appropriate congressional committees The term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (A)  the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives; and  (B)  the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.  (2)  Critical infrastructure The term  critical infrastructure  has the meaning given such term in section 1016(e) of the USA Patriot Act of 2001 ( 42 U.S.C. 5195c(e) ). (3)  Executive Director The term  Executive Director  means the Executive Director of the Space Information Sharing and Analysis Center.  (4)  Sector-specific agency The term  Sector-Specific Agency  has the meaning given such term in Presidential Policy Directive 21 (February 12, 2013; relating to critical infrastructure security and resilience). (5)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Homeland Security.
