 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  American Flag Production Act of 2021 .
 2.  Requirement for Federal agencies to buy domestically made United States flags  (a)  Requirement for Federal agencies To buy domestically made United States flags  (1)  In general  Chapter 63  of title 41, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section:  6310.  Requirement for Federal agencies to buy domestically made United States flags  (a)  Requirement  Funds appropriated or otherwise available to a Federal agency may not be used for the procurement of any flag of the United States, unless such flag has been 100 percent manufactured in the United States from articles, materials, or supplies that have been 100 percent produced or manufactured in the United States.  (b)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Federal agency The term  Federal agency  means each instrumentality of the Federal Government. (2)  United States The term  United States  includes each of the several States, the District of Columbia, Tribal lands, or the territories or possessions of the United States. 
 .  (2)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:  6310. Requirement for Federal agencies to buy domestically made United States flags.  .  (b)  Applicability  Section 6310 of title 41, United States Code, as added by subsection (a)(1), shall apply with respect to any procurement made or contract for on or after the date that is 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 3.  Requirement for persons to buy domestically made United States flags  (a)  Requirement for persons To buy domestically made United States flags  (1)  In general  Chapter 33  of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:  717.  Requirement for persons to buy domestically made United States flags  Whoever purchases a flag of the United States that has not been 100 percent manufactured in the United States from articles, materials, or supplies that have been 100 percent produced or manufactured in the United States, shall be fined under this title $1,000 dollars. 
 .  (2)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:   717. Requirement for persons to buy domestically made United States flags.  .  (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall take effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.  
