 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Medical Supplies for Pandemics Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Supply chain flexibility manufacturing pilot  (a)  In general  Section 319F–2(a)(3) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(a)(3)) is amended—  (1) in subparagraph (I), by striking  and ; (2) in subparagraph (J), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and  (3)  by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:  (K) enhance medical supply chain elasticity and establish and maintain domestic reserves of critical medical supplies (including personal protective equipment, ancillary medical supplies, and other applicable supplies required for the administration of drugs, vaccines and other biological products, and other medical devices (including diagnostic tests)) by— (i)  increasing emergency stock of critical medical supplies;   (ii)  geographically diversifying domestic production of such medical supplies, as appropriate;  (iii)  entering into cooperative agreements or partnerships with respect to manufacturing lines, facilities, and equipment for the domestic production of such medical supplies; and  (iv)  managing, either directly or through cooperative agreements with manufacturers and distributors, domestic reserves established under this subparagraph by refreshing and replenishing stock of such medical supplies.  .  (b)  Reporting; sunset  Section 319F–2(a) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(a)) is amended by adding at the end the following:  (6)  Reporting  Not later than September 30, 2022, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor and Pensions of the Senate a report on the details of each cooperative agreement or partnership entered into under paragraph (3)(K), including the amount expended by the Secretary on each such cooperative agreement or partnership.  (7)  Sunset  The authority to enter into cooperative agreements or partnerships pursuant to paragraph (3)(K) shall cease to be effective on September 30, 2024.  .  (c)  Funding  Section 319F–2(f) of the Public Health Service Act (42 U.S.C. 247d–6b(f)) is amended by adding at the end the following:  (3)  Supply chain elasticity  (A)  In general  For the purpose of carrying out subsection (a)(3)(K), there is authorized to be appropriated $500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2024, to remain available until expended.  (B)  Relation to other amounts  The amount authorized to be appropriated by subparagraph (A) for the purpose of carrying out subsection (a)(3)(K) is in addition to any other amounts available for such purpose.  . 
