
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Afghan Threat Finance Cell Establishment Act of 2021 .
  2.  Establishment of Afghan Threat Finance Cell   (a)  Establishment Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall establish an interagency organization to be known as the  Afghan Threat Finance Cell .
 (b)  Mission  The mission of the Afghan Threat Finance Cell shall be to identify, disrupt, and eliminate illicit financial networks in Afghanistan, particularly such networks involved in narcotics trafficking, illicit financial transactions, official corruption, and terrorist networks.   (c)  Organization   (1)  Membership  The Afghan Threat Finance Cell shall consist of representatives from elements of the United States Government as follows: 
 (A)  The Department of the Treasury.   (B)  The Drug Enforcement Administration. 
 (C)  The Department of State.   (D)  The Department of Defense. 
 (E)  The Federal Bureau of Investigation.   (F)  The Internal Revenue Service. 
 (G)  The Department of Homeland Security.   (H)  The Defense Intelligence Agency. 
 (I)  The Office of Foreign Assets Control of the Department of the Treasury.   (J)  The Central Intelligence Agency. 
 (K)  Any other law enforcement agency or element of the intelligence community that the Secretary of the Treasury, the Administrator of the Drug Enforcement Administration, and the Secretary of Defense jointly determine appropriate.   (2)  Lead agencies  The Department of the Treasury shall serve as the lead agency of the Afghan Threat Finance Cell. The Drug Enforcement Administration and the Department of Defense shall serve as the co-deputy lead agencies of the Afghan Threat Finance Cell. 
 (d)  Coordination  The Afghan Threat Finance Cell shall regularly coordinate and consult with regional Financial Intelligence Units, the international Financial Action Task Force, and the Special Inspector General for Afghanistan Reconstruction.   (e)  Briefings   (1)  Requirement  Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Afghan Threat Finance Cell shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on the activities of the Afghan Threat Finance Cell. 
 (2)  Matters included  Each briefing under paragraph (1) shall include the following:   (A)  An assessment of the activities undertaken by, and the effectiveness of, the Afghan Threat Finance Cell in identifying, disrupting, eliminating illicit financial networks in Afghanistan, particularly such networks involved in narcotics trafficking, illicit financial transactions, official corruption, and terrorist networks. 
 (B)  Any recommendations to Congress regarding legislative or regulatory improvements necessary to support the identification, disruption, and elimination of illicit financial networks in Afghanistan.   (3)  Form  A briefing under paragraph (1) may be provided in a classified form. 
 (4)  Appropriate congressional committees defined In this subsection, the term  appropriate congressional committees  means—  (A)  The Committee on Financial Services, the Committee on Reform, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Armed Services of the House of Representatives. 
 (B)  The Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs, the Committee on the Judiciary, and the Committee on Armed Services of the Senate.   (f)  Termination   (1)  In general  Except as provided by paragraph (2), the Afghan Threat Finance Cell shall terminate on the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 (2)  Extension  The President may extend the date under paragraph (1) by an additional two years. 
 