
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Securing Our Border States Act . 
  2.  Establishment of block grant program to enable southwest border States to construct barriers along their borders with Mexico   (a)  In general  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, not later than 30 days after the President receives from the Governor of a southwest border State a certification that the Governor intends to use covered block grant funding for the construction of a southwest border barrier, including continuing the construction of portions of existing border barrier, and associated infrastructure, including physical barriers and associated detection technology, roads, and lighting, the President shall— 
 (1)  acting through the Secretary of the Treasury, disburse an appropriate prorated amount of such block grant funding, as determined under subsection (b); and    (2)  ensure that all relevant Federal entities take such actions as may be necessary to allow for such construction. 
 (b)  Determination of grant amount  Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall—   (1)  determine the number of miles along the border between each southwest border State and Mexico where there is no border barrier; and 
 (2)  determine the pro-rated amount each southwest border State may receive under this section on the basis of the determination with respect to such State under paragraph (1).   (c)  Empowering States To Build the Wall Fund   (1)  Establishment There is hereby established in the General Fund of the Treasury a fund to be known as the  Empowering States To Build the Wall Fund . Amounts deposited in the Fund shall be available without fiscal year limitation during the five-year period beginning on the date of the first disbursal from the Fund for the purpose of making grants to southwest border States under this section.
 (2)  Appropriations  There is hereby appropriated to the Empowering States To Build the Wall Fund $22,000,000,000.   (3)  Rescission of certain Federal funds appropriated for State, local, and Tribal governments  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, there are hereby permanently rescinded $22,000,000,000 of the total amount of unobligated funds available under any of sections 601 through 603 of title VI of the Social Security Act.  
 (d)  Southwest border State defined In this section, the term  southwest border State  means Texas, New Mexico, Arizona, or California.
 