 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protecting Election Administration from Interference Act of 2021 .
 2.  Enhancement of protections for election records, papers, and equipment  (a)  Preservation of records, paper, and equipment Section 301 of the Civil Rights Act of 1960 ( 52 U.S.C. 20701 ) is amended— (1) by striking  Every officer  and inserting the following: (a)  In general  Every officer  ;  (2) by striking  records and papers  and inserting  records (including electronic records), papers, and election equipment  each place the term appears;  (3)  by striking “record or paper” and inserting “record (including electronic record), paper, or election equipment”;  (4) by inserting  (but only under the direct administrative supervision of an election officer). Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the paper record of a voter’s cast ballot shall remain the official record of the cast ballot for purposes of this title  after  upon such custodian ;  (5) by inserting  , or acts in reckless disregard of,  after  fails to comply with ; and (6)  by inserting after subsection (a) the following:  (b)  Election equipment  The requirement in subsection (a) to preserve election equipment shall not be construed to prevent the reuse of such equipment in any election that takes place within twenty-two months of a Federal election described in subsection (a), provided that all electronic records, files, and data from such equipment related to such Federal election are retained and preserved.  (c)  Guidance  Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Director of the Cybersecurity and Infrastructure Security Agency of the Department of Homeland Security, in consultation with the Election Assistance Commission and the Attorney General, shall issue guidance regarding compliance with subsections (a) and (b), including minimum standards and best practices for retaining and preserving records (including electronic records), papers, and election equipment in compliance with subsections (a) and (b). Such guidance shall also include protocols for enabling the observation of the preservation, security, and transfer of records (including electronic records), papers, and election equipment described in subsection (a) by the Attorney General and by a representative of each party, as defined by the Attorney General.  .  (b)  Penalty Section 302 of the Civil Rights Act of 1960 ( 52 U.S.C. 20702 ) is amended— (1) by inserting  , or whose reckless disregard of section 301 results in the theft, destruction, concealment, mutilation, or alteration of,  after  or alters ; and (2) by striking  record or paper  and inserting  record (including electronic record), paper, or election equipment . (c)  Inspection, reproduction, and copying Section 303 of the Civil Rights Act of 1960 ( 52 U.S.C. 20703 ) is amended by striking  record or paper  and inserting “record (including electronic record), paper, or election equipment” each place the term appears. (d)  Nondisclosure Section 304 of the Civil Rights Act of 1960 ( 52 U.S.C. 20704 ) is amended by striking  record or paper  and inserting “record (including electronic record), paper, or election equipment”. (e)  Jurisdiction To compel production Section 305 of the Civil Rights Act of 1960 ( 52 U.S.C. 20705 ) is amended by striking  record or paper  and inserting “record (including electronic record), paper, or election equipment”.
 3.  Judicial review for election records Title III of the Civil Rights Act of 1960 ( 52 U.S.C. 20701 et seq. ), is amended— (1)  by redesignating section 306 as sections 307; and  (2)  by inserting after section 305 the following:  306.  Judicial review to ensure compliance  (a)  Right of action  The Attorney General, a representative of the Attorney General, or a candidate in a Federal election described in section 301 may bring an action in the district court of the United States for the judicial district in which a record or paper is located, or in the United States District Court for the District of Columbia, to compel compliance with the requirements of section 301.  (b)  Duty To expedite  It shall be the duty of the court to advance on the docket, and to expedite to the greatest possible extent the disposition of, the action and appeal under this section. 
 . 
 4.  Criminal penalties for intimidation of tabulation, canvass, or certification efforts Section 12(1) of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 ( 52 U.S.C. 20511(1) ) is amended— (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking  or  at the end; and (2)  by adding at the end the following:   (D)  processing or scanning of ballots, or tabulating, canvassing, or certifying voting results; or  . 
