
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Benjamin Berell Ferencz Congressional Gold Medal Act . 
  2.  Findings   Congress finds the following: 
 (1) Benjamin  Ben  Berell Ferencz was born on March 11, 1920, in Transylvania, now modern day Hungary.  (2)  In 1920, Ben and his family fled anti-Semitic persecution and emigrated to the United States. Ben grew up in New York City, and in 1940, was awarded a scholarship to Harvard Law School where he graduated with honors. 
 (3)  After the onset of World War II, Ben enlisted in the United States Army in 1943, and joined an anti-aircraft artillery battalion preparing for the invasion of France. As an enlisted man under General Patton, he fought in most of the major campaigns in Europe.   (4)  As Nazi atrocities were uncovered, Ben was transferred to a newly created War Crimes Branch of the Army to gather evidence of war crimes that could be used in a court of law to prosecute persons responsible for these crimes. Ben documented the horrors perpetrated by Nazi Germany, visiting concentration camps as they were liberated. 
 (5)  At the end of 1945, Ben was honorably discharged from the United States Army with the rank of Sergeant of Infantry. He had been awarded five battle stars.   (6)  In 1946, the United States Government recruited Ben to join the team working on the Nuremberg tribunals, a novel independent court established to try top-ranking Nazi officials for crimes perpetrated during the course of the war, including those crimes we now call the Holocaust. Mr. Ferencz was sent to Berlin to oversee a team of 50 researchers investigating official Nazi records, which provided overwhelming evidence to implicate German doctors, lawyers, judges, generals, industrialists, and others in genocide. 
 (7) By 1948, at age 27, Ben had secured enough evidence to prosecute 22 SS members of Nazi killing squads charged for the murder of over 1,000,0000 Jewish, Roma, Soviet, and other men, women, and children in shooting massacres in occupied Soviet territory. He was appointed chief prosecutor in the Einsatzgruppen Trial, in what the Associated Press called  the biggest murder trial in history . The court found 20 Nazi officials guilty of war crimes, crimes against humanity, and membership in a criminal organization for their roles in the murder of over a million people. An additional two defendants were found guilty for membership in a criminal organization.  (8)  After the Nuremberg trials ended, Ben fought for compensation for victims and survivors of the Holocaust, the return of stolen assets, and other forms of restitution for those who had suffered at the hands of the Nazis. 
 (9)  Since the 1970s, Ben has worked tirelessly to promote development of international mechanisms to outlaw and punish aggressive war and the crimes of genocide, crimes against humanity and war crimes. His efforts contributed to the establishment of the International Criminal Court and to the recognition of aggression as an international crime.   (10) Ben is a tireless advocate for international criminal justice and the conviction that the rule of law offers the world a sustainable path to stem conflict and reach peaceful conclusions to geopolitical disputes. His unwavering goal has been  to establish a legal precedent that would encourage a more humane and secure world in the future .
 (11) Ben, at age 101, is still active, giving speeches throughout the world about lessons learned during his extraordinary career. He is compelled by the imperative to  replace the rule of force with the rule of law , promoting judicial mechanisms that can resolve conflict. He often tells young people to  never give up  because the fight for peace and justice is worth the long struggle ahead.
  3.  Congressional gold medal   (a)  Presentation authorized  The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design to Benjamin Berell Ferencz, in recognition of his service to the United States and international community during the post-World War II Nuremberg trials and lifelong advocacy for international criminal justice and rule of law. 
 (b)  Design and striking For purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the  Secretary ) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary. 
  4.  Duplicate medals   (a)  In general  The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3 under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses. 
 (b)  United States Holocaust Memorial Museum 
 (1)  In general  The Secretary shall provide a duplicate medal described under subsection (a) to the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum.   (2)  Sense of Congress  It is the sense of Congress that the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum should make the duplicate medal received under this subsection available for display to the public whenever the United States Holocaust Memorial Museum determines that such display is timely, feasible, and practical. 

 5.  Status of medals 
 (a)  National medals The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of  chapter 51  of title 31, United States Code.  (b)  Numismatic items  For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items. 

 6.  Determination of budgetary effects The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled  Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation  for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
 