 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Smoke Planning and Research Act of 2021 .
 2.  Research on wildfire smoke  (a)  Centers of excellence  (1)  In general Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency (referred to in this section as the  Administrator ) shall establish at institutions of higher education 4 centers, each of which shall be known as a  Center of Excellence for Wildfire Smoke , to carry out research relating to— (A)  the effects on public health of smoke emissions from wildland fires; and  (B)  means by which communities can better respond to the impacts of emissions from wildland fires.  (2)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this subsection $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2022 and each fiscal year thereafter.  (b)  Research  (1)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall carry out research—  (A)  to study the health effects of smoke emissions from wildland fires;  (B)  to develop and disseminate personal and community-based interventions to reduce exposure to and adverse health effects of smoke emissions from wildland fires;  (C)  to increase the quality of smoke monitoring and prediction tools and techniques; and  (D)  to develop implementation and communication strategies.  (2)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this subsection $20,000,000 for fiscal year 2022 and each fiscal year thereafter. 
 3.  Community smoke planning  (a)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall establish a competitive grant program to assist eligible entities described in subsection (b) in developing and implementing collaborative community plans for mitigating the impacts of smoke emissions from wildland fires.  (b)  Eligible entities  An entity that is eligible to submit an application for a grant under subsection (a) is—  (1)  a State;  (2)  a unit of local government (including any special district, such as an air quality management district or a school district); or  (3)  an Indian Tribe.  (c)  Applications  To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), an eligible entity described in subsection (b) shall submit to the Administrator an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Administrator may require.  (d)  Technical assistance  The Administrator may use amounts made available to carry out this section to provide to eligible entities described in subsection (b) technical assistance in—  (1)  submitting grant applications under subsection (c); or  (2)  carrying out projects using a grant under this section.  (e)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this section $50,000,000 for fiscal year 2022 and each fiscal year thereafter. 
