 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  No Bonuses in Bankruptcy Act of 2021 .
 2.  Amendments  (a)  Allowance of administrative expenses  Section 503 of title 11 of the United States Code is amended by adding at the end the following:  (d)  (1)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, there shall neither be allowed nor paid a bonus to—  (A)  an individual employed by the debtor at an annual rate of compensation exceeding $250,000;  (B)  an insider of the debtor; or  (C)  an individual employed by the debtor to the extent that such bonus would cause that individual’s annual rate of compensation to exceed $250,000.  (2) For purposes of this subsection, the term  bonus  means a transfer to, or obligation incurred for the benefit of, an individual employed by the debtor or insider of the debtor as compensation for services in an amount that— (A)  is in addition to the existing wages, salary, or base compensation of an insider of the debtor or individual employed by the debtor; and  (B)  can be construed as a form of retention, incentive, or reward related to the services provided to the debtor by the insider or the individual employed by the debtor. The term  bonus  does not include a sales commission. Nor does the term  bonus  include any transfer or obligation pursuant to the terms of a collective bargaining agreement.  (3) The term  an individual employed by the debtor  includes, but is not limited to, an employee, consultant, or contractor. .  (b)  Preferences  Section 547 of title 11 of the United States Code is amended by adding at end the following:  (j)  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the trustee may avoid any transfer of an interest of the debtor in property made within 180 days before the date of the filing of the petition if such transfer is the payment of a bonus of the kind that would be disallowed under subsection (c) or (d) of section 503.  . 
 3.  Effective date; application of amendment  (a)  Effective date  Except as provided in subsection (b), this Act and the amendment made by this Act shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.  (b)  Application of amendment  The amendment made by this Act shall apply only with respect to cases commenced under title 11 of the United States Code on or after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
