 1.  Short title  This Act may be cited as the  Western Water Recycling and Drought Relief Act of 2021 .
 2.  Project authorizations  (a)  In general The Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act ( 43 U.S.C. 390h  et seq.) (as amended by section 512 (a) of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008) is amended by adding at the end the following: 16___.  Benicia water reuse project  (a)  Authorization  The Secretary, in cooperation with the City of Benicia, California, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of recycled water system facilities.  (b)  Cost share  The Federal share of the cost of the project authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of the project.  (c)  Limitation  The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $7,150,000. 
 16___.  Central Redwood City recycled water project  (a)  Authorization  The Secretary, in cooperation with the City of Redwood City, California, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of recycled water system facilities.  (b)  Cost share  The Federal share of the cost of the project authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of the project.  (c)  Limitation  The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $7,500,000. 
 16___.  Flow equalization and resource recovery facility levee improvements and Bayfront recycled water facility  (a)  Authorization  The Secretary, in cooperation with the West Bay Sanitary District, California, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of recycled water system facilities.  (b)  Cost share  The Federal share of the cost of the project authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of the project.  (c)  Limitation  The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $15,000,000. 
 16___.  Hayward recycled water project phase II  (a)  Authorization  The Secretary, in cooperation with the City of Hayward, California, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of recycled water system facilities.  (b)  Cost share  The Federal share of the cost of the project authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of the project.  (c)  Limitation  The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,500,000. 
 16___.  Ironhouse sanitary district recycled water project  (a)  Authorization  The Secretary, in cooperation with the Ironhouse Sanitary District, California, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of recycled water distribution systems.  (b)  Cost share  The Federal share of the cost of the project authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of the project.  (c)  Limitation  The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000. 
 16___.  Mountain View recycled water system expansion and improvement  (a)  Authorization  The Secretary, in cooperation with the City of Mountain View, California, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of recycled water system facilities.  (b)  Cost share  The Federal share of the cost of the project authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of the project.  (c)  Limitation  The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000. 
 16___.  Palo Alto enhanced recycled water facility  (a)  Authorization  The Secretary, in cooperation with the City of Palo Alto, California, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of recycled water system facilities.  (b)  Cost share  The Federal share of the cost of the project authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of the project.  (c)  Limitation  The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $4,000,000. 
 16___.  Palo Alto recycled water distribution extension  (a)  Authorization  The Secretary, in cooperation with the City of Palo Alto, California, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of recycled water system facilities.  (b)  Cost share  The Federal share of the cost of the project authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of the project.  (c)  Limitation  The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $8,250,000. 
 16___.  Pure Water Monterey a groundwater replenishment project  (a)  Authorization  The Secretary, in cooperation with the Monterey One Water, California, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of recycled water system facilities.  (b)  Cost share  The Federal share of the cost of the project authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of the project.  (c)  Limitation  The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000. 
 16___.  South Santa Clara County recycled water project  (a)  Authorization  The Secretary, in cooperation with the Santa Clara Valley Water District, California, is authorized to participate in the design, planning, and construction of recycled water system facilities.  (b)  Cost share  The Federal share of the cost of the project authorized by this section shall not exceed 25 percent of the total cost of the project.  (c)  Limitation  The Secretary shall not provide funds for the operation and maintenance of the project authorized by this section.  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,995,250. 
 .  (b)  Project implementation  In carrying out sections 1642 through 1648 of the Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act, and the sections added to such Act by subsection (a), the Secretary shall enter into individual agreements with the Western Recycled Water Coalition participating agencies to fund the projects, and shall include in such agreements a provision for the reimbursement of design, planning and construction costs, including those costs incurred prior to the enactment of this Act, subject to appropriations made available for the Federal share of the project under sections 1642 through 1648 of the Reclamation Wastewater and Groundwater Study and Facilities Act and the sections added to such Act by subsection (a).  (c)  Clerical amendments  The table of contents of the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992 (43 U.S.C. prec. 371) (as amended by section 512(a) of the Consolidated Natural Resources Act of 2008) is amended by adding at the end the following:  Sec. 16___. Benicia water reuse project.   Sec. 16___. Central Redwood City recycled water project.   Sec. 16___. Flow equalization and resource recovery facility levee improvements and Bayfront recycled water facility.   Sec. 16___. Hayward recycled water project phase II.   Sec. 16___. Ironhouse Sanitary District recycled water project.   Sec. 16___. Mountain View recycled water system expansion and improvement.   Sec. 16___. Palo Alto enhanced recycled water facility.   Sec. 16___. Palo Alto recycled water distribution extension.   Sec. 16___. Pure Water Monterey a groundwater replenishment project.   Sec. 16___. South Santa Clara County recycled water project.  . 
