 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Helping Unleash Benefits and Services for Veterans Act of 2021  or the  HUBS for Veterans Act of 2021 .
 2.  Grants for provision of transition assistance to members and former members of the Armed Forces after separation, retirement, or discharge  (a)  In general  Commencing not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Labor shall, in coordination with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, carry out a program to award grants to eligible organizations for the provision of assistance to covered individuals on the transition of a member or former member of the Armed Forces from service in the Armed Forces to civilian life.  (b)  Covered individuals  For purposes of this section, a covered individual is—  (1)  a member of the Armed Forces who is eligible for preseparation counseling under sections 1142 and 1144 of title 10, United States Code;  (2)  a former member of the Armed Forces who is transitioning from service in the Armed Forces to civilian life; or  (3)  a spouse of a member described in paragraph (1) or a former member described in paragraph (2).  (c)  Duration of program  The Secretary of Labor shall carry out the program during the five-year period beginning on the date of the commencement of the program.  (d)  Grants  (1)  In general  The Secretary of Labor shall carry out the program through the award of grants to eligible organizations for the provision of assistance described in subsection (a).  (2)  Matching funds required  A grant under this section shall be in an amount that does not exceed 50 percent of the amount required by the organization to provide the services described in subsection (g).  (e)  Eligible organizations  For purposes of this section, an eligible organization is any nonprofit organization that the Secretary of Labor determines, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, is suitable for receipt of a grant under the program pursuant to receipt by the Secretary of Labor of an application submitted under subsection (f)(1).  (f)  Selection of grant recipients  (1)  Applications  An organization seeking a grant under the program shall submit to the Secretary of Labor an application therefor at such time, in such manner, and containing such information and assurances as the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, may require.  (2)  Priority for hubs of services  In awarding grants under the program, the Secretary of Labor shall give priority to an organization that provides multiple forms of services described in subsection (g).  (g)  Use of funds  The recipient of a grant under the program shall use the grant to coordinate for covered individuals the following:  (1)  Job recruitment training, including résumé assistance and interview training.  (2)  Behavioral health services.  (3)  Financial services.  (4)  Legal assistance.  (5)  Educational supportive services.  (6)  Assistance with accessing benefits provided under laws administered by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs.  (7)  Non-clinical case management.  (8)  Entrepreneurship training.  (9)  Such other services that may be related to the assistance and services set forth in this subsection as the Secretary of Labor determines may lead directly to successful transition to civilian life.  (h)  Inclusion in Transition Assistance Program counseling  The Secretary concerned shall include in the information provided to a member of the Armed Forces during Transition Assistance Program information regarding any recipient of a grant under this section that is located in the community in which that member will reside after separation, retirement, or discharge from the Armed Forces.  (i)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 to carry out this section.  (j)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Nonprofit organization The term  nonprofit organization  is an organization that is described in  section 501(c)(3)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and is exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code. (2)  Secretary concerned The term  Secretary concerned  has the meaning given such term in section 101 of title 10, United States Code. (3)  Transition Assistance Program The term  Transition Assistance Program  means the Transition Assistance Program under sections 1142 and 1144 of title 10, United States Code.
