 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Freedom for Families Act .
 2.  Distributions from health savings accounts during periods of qualified caregiving  (a)  In general Paragraphs (1) and (2) of  section 223(f)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 are amended to read as follows: (1)  Exclusion of amounts used for qualified medical expenses or distributed during periods of qualified caregiving  Any amount paid or distributed out of a health savings account shall not be includible in gross income if it is—  (A)  used exclusively to pay qualified medical expenses of any account beneficiary, or  (B)  paid or distributed during a period of qualified caregiving.  (2)  Inclusion of amounts neither used for qualified medical expenses nor distributed during periods of qualified caregiving  Any amount paid or distributed out of a health savings account shall be included in the gross income of the account beneficiary if it is not described in paragraph (1).  .  (b)  Definition of period of qualified caregiving  Section 223(f)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: (9)  Period of qualified caregiving For purposes of this section, the term  period of qualified caregiving  means any period during which an individual is on leave or not employed by reason of a situation described in subparagraphs (A) through (E) of section 102(a)(1) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993. .  (c)  Conforming amendments  (1) Section 223(d)(1) of such Code is amended by inserting  or the expenses incurred during a period of qualified caregiving of the account beneficiary . (2) Section 223(f)(4) of such Code is amended in the heading by striking  distributions not used for qualified medical expenses  and inserting  certain distributions . (d)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 3.  No high deductible health plan required for health savings accounts  (a)  In general  Section 223(a)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  who is an eligible individual for any month during the taxable year . (b)  Conforming amendments  (1)  Section 223(b) of such Code is amended by striking paragraphs (7) and (8).  (2)  Section 223 of such Code is amended by striking subsection (c).  (c)  Increase in contribution limit for health savings accounts  (1)  In general  Section 223(b)(1)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  the sum of the monthly  and all that follows through  eligible individual  and inserting  $9,000 (twice such amount in the case of a joint return) . (2)  Conforming amendments  (A)  Section 223(b) of such Code is amended by striking paragraphs (2), (3), and (5) and by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (6) as paragraphs (2) and (3), respectively.  (B)  Section 223(b)(2) of such Code (as redesignated by subparagraph (A)) is amended by striking the last sentence.  (C) Section 223(d)(1)(A)(ii) is amended by striking  the sum of  and all that follows through the period at the end and inserting  the dollar amount in effect under subsection (b)(1). . (D)  Section 223(g)(1) of such Code is amended—  (i) by striking  Each dollar amount in subsections (b)(2) and (c)(2)(A)  and inserting  The dollar amount in subsection (b)(1) ; (ii) by striking  thereof  and all that follows through  calendar year 2003 . and inserting  calendar year 1997 .; and (iii) by striking  under subsections (b)(2) and (c)(2)(A)  and inserting  under subsection (b)(1) . (d)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to months in taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
