 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Treatment and Relief through Emerging and Accessible Therapy for PTSD Act  or the  TREAT PTSD Act .
 2.  Provision of stellate ganglion block to veterans and members of the Armed Forces with post-traumatic stress disorder  (a)  Provision to veterans  (1)  In general Subchapter II of  chapter 17  of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 1720K.  Provision of stellate ganglion block for certain veterans  (a)  In general  The Secretary shall furnish stellate ganglion block to any veteran who—  (1)  is enrolled in the patient enrollment system under section 1705 of this title;  (2)  has been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder; and  (3)  has elected to receive stellate ganglion block after being informed by a qualified health care provider of the risks and benefits of stellate ganglion block.  (b)  Provision of care  The Secretary may furnish stellate ganglion block under subsection (a) through a medical facility of the Department or through a health care provider specified in section 1703(c) of this title. 
 .  (2)  Clerical amendment The table of contents at the beginning of  chapter 17  of title 38, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to  section 1720J  the following new item: 1720K. Provision of stellate ganglion block for certain veterans.  .  (b)  Provision to members of the Armed Forces  (1)  In general  Chapter 55  of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 1074o  the following new section: 1074p.  Provision of stellate ganglion block for certain members  (a)  In general  The Secretary shall furnish stellate ganglion block to any member of the Armed Forces (including the reserve components) who is performing or has performed active service and who—  (1)  is enrolled in the TRICARE program under chapter 55 of this title;  (2)  has been diagnosed with post-traumatic stress disorder; and  (3)  has elected to receive stellate ganglion block after being informed by a qualified health care provider of the risks and benefits of stellate ganglion block.  (b)  Provision of care  The Secretary may furnish stellate ganglion block under subsection (a) through a medical facility of the Department or through a qualified health care provider participating in a Department administered TRICARE health insurance program. 
 .  (2)  Clerical amendment The table of contents at the beginning of  chapter 55  of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to  section 1074o  the following new item: 1074p. Provision of stellate ganglion block for certain members.  .  (c)  Update of joint clinical practice guideline  (1)  Update of guideline Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs and the Secretary of Defense shall update the guideline published jointly by the Secretaries and titled the  VA/DOD Clinical Practice Guideline (CPG) for the Management of PTSD  (or such successor guideline) to ensure the guideline— (A)  reflects the availability of stellate ganglion block as a therapy option; and  (B)  includes information on the clinical indicators and contraindicators for such therapy option.  (2)  Notification  Upon updating the guideline under paragraph (1), the Secretaries shall notify the appropriate congressional committees of such update.  (3)  Appropriate congressional committees defined In this subsection, the term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (A)  the congressional defense committees (as such term is defined in section 101 of title 10, United States Code); and  (B)  the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate.  (d)  Effective date  The amendments made by subsections (a) and (b) shall take effect on the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
