 1.  Alzheimer’s Research and Caregiving Trust Fund  (a)  In general Subchapter A of  chapter 98  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 9512.  Alzheimer’s Research and Caregiving Trust Fund  (a)  Creation of trust fund There is established in the Treasury of the United States a trust fund to be known as the  Alzheimer’s Research and Caregiving Trust Fund  (referred to in this section as the  Trust Fund ), consisting of such amounts as may be appropriated or credit to such Trust Fund as provided in this section or section 9602(b). (b)  Transfers to Trust Fund  There are hereby appropriated to the Trust Fund amounts equivalent to the amounts contributed under section 6097.  (c)  Expenditures  Amounts in the Trust Fund shall be available, without further appropriations, as follows:  (1)  Fifty percent to the National Institutes of Health to conduct or support research regarding the treatment or cure of Alzheimer’s disease pursuant to the Alzheimer’s Disease and Related Dementias Research Act of 1992.  (2)  Fifty percent to the Administration on Aging for education, counseling, respite, and other supportive services under the Older Americans Act of 1965 for the benefit of individuals with Alzheimer's disease and of their families, caregivers, and health care professionals. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections for subchapter A of chapter 98 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new item:  Sec. 9512. Alzheimer’s Research and Caregiving Trust Fund.  . 
 2.  Contribution to the Alzheimer’s Research and Caregiving Trust Fund  (a)  In general Subchapter A of  chapter 61  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new part: IX  Contribution to the Alzheimer’s Research and Caregiving Trust Fund  Sec. 6097. Contribution to the Alzheimer’s Research and Caregiving Trust Fund  6097.  Contribution to the Alzheimer’s Research and Caregiving Trust Fund  Every individual may elect, at the time of filing the return of the tax imposed by chapter 1, to contribute a whole dollar amount to be paid over to the Alzheimer’s Research and Caregiving Trust Fund. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of parts for such subchapter A of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new item:  Part IX. Contribution to the Alzheimer’s Research and Caregiving Trust Fund.  .  (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years ending after December 31, 2021. 
