 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Ensuring Safe Capital Access for All Small Businesses Act of 2021 .
 2.  Decriminalization of cannabis  (a)  Cannabis removed from schedule of controlled substances Subsection (c) of schedule I of section 202(c) of the Controlled Substances Act ( 21 U.S.C. 812 ) is amended— (1)  by striking paragraph (10) (relating to marihuana); and  (2)  by striking paragraph (17) (relating to terahydrocannabinols).  (b)  Conforming amendments to Controlled Substances Act The Controlled Substances Act ( 21 U.S.C. 801  et seq.) is amended— (1) in section 102(44) ( 21 U.S.C. 802(44) ), by striking  marihuana, ; (2) in section 401(b) ( 21 U.S.C. 841(b) )— (A)  in paragraph (1)—  (i)  in subparagraph (A)—  (I) in clause (vi), by inserting  or  after the semicolon; (II)  by striking (vii); and  (III)  by redesignating clause (viii) as clause (vii);  (ii)  in subparagraph (B)—  (I) in clause (vi), by inserting  or  after the semicolon; (II)  by striking clause (vii); and  (III)  by redesignating clause (viii) as clause (vii);  (iii) in subparagraph (C), in the first sentence, by striking  subparagraphs (A), (B), and (D)  and inserting  subparagraphs (A) and (B) ; (iv)  by striking subparagraph (D);  (v)  by redesignating subparagraph (E) as subparagraph (D); and  (vi) in subparagraph (D)(i), as so redesignated, by striking  subparagraphs (C) and (D)  and inserting  subparagraph (C) ; (B)  by striking paragraph (4); and  (C)  by redesignating paragraphs (5), (6), and (7) as paragraphs (4), (5), and (6), respectively;  (3) in section 402(c)(2)(B) ( 21 U.S.C. 842(c)(2)(B) ), by striking  marihuana, ; (4) in section 403(d)(1) ( 21 U.S.C. 843(d)(1) ), by striking  marihuana, ; (5) in section 418(a) ( 21 U.S.C. 859(a) ), by striking the last sentence; (6) in section 419(a) ( 21 U.S.C. 860(a) ), by striking the last sentence; (7) in section 422(d) ( 21 U.S.C. 863(d) )— (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking  marijuana, ; and (B) in paragraph (5), by striking  , such as a marihuana cigarette, ; and (8) in section 516(d) ( 21 U.S.C. 886(d) ), by striking  section 401(b)(6)  each place the term appears and inserting  section 401(b)(5) . (c)  Other conforming amendments  (1)  National Forest System Drug Control Act of 1986 The National Forest System Drug Control Act of 1986 ( 16 U.S.C. 559b  et seq.) is amended— (A) in section 15002(a) ( 16 U.S.C. 559b(a) ) by striking  marijuana and other ; (B) in section 15003(2) ( 16 U.S.C. 559c(2) ) by striking  marijuana and other ; and (C) in section 15004(2) ( 16 U.S.C. 559d(2) ) by striking  marijuana and other . (2)  Interception of communications  Section 2516 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—  (A) in subsection (1)(e), by striking  , marihuana, ; and (B) in subsection (2) by striking  marihuana .
 3. 7 (a)  loans to cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providersSection 7(a) of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 636(a) ) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: (38)  Loans to cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers  (A)  In general  The Administrator may not decline to provide a guarantee for a loan under this subsection, and a lender may not decline to make a loan made under this subsection, to an otherwise eligible small business concern solely because such concern is a cannabis-related legitimate business or service provider.  (B)  Definitions  In this paragraph:  (i)  Cannabis The term  cannabis  has the meaning given the term  marihuana  in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act. (ii)  Cannabis product The term  cannabis product  means any article which contains cannabis, including an article which is a concentrate, an edible, a tincture, a cannabis-infused product, or a topical. (iii)  Cannabis-related legitimate business The term  cannabis-related legitimate business  means a manufacturer, producer, or any person or company that is a small business concern and that— (I)  engages in any activity described in subclause (II) pursuant to a law established by a State or a political subdivision of a State, as determined by such State or political subdivision; and  (II)  participates in any business or organized activity that involves handling cannabis or cannabis products, including cultivating, producing, manufacturing, selling, transporting, displaying, dispensing, distributing, or purchasing cannabis or cannabis products.  (iv)  Manufacturer The term  manufacturer  means a person who manufactures, compounds, converts, processes, prepares, or packages cannabis or cannabis products. (v)  Producer The term  producer  means a person who plants, cultivates, harvests, or in any way facilitates the natural growth of cannabis. (vi)  Service provider The term  service provider — (I)  means a business, organization, or other person that—  (aa)  sells goods or services to a cannabis-related legitimate business; or  (bb)  provides any business services, including the sale or lease of real or any other property, legal or other licensed services, or any other ancillary service, relating to cannabis; and  (II)  does not include a business, organization, or other person that participates in any business or organized activity that involves handling cannabis or cannabis products, including cultivating, producing, manufacturing, selling, transporting, displaying, dispensing, distributing, or purchasing cannabis or cannabis products.  (vii)  State The term  State  means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States. . 
 4.  Disaster loans to cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers Section 7(b) of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 636(b) ) is amended by inserting after paragraph (15) the following new paragraph: (16)  Assistance to cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers  The Administrator may not decline to provide assistance under this subsection to an otherwise eligible borrower solely because such borrower is a cannabis-related legitimate business or service provider (as defined in subsection (a)(38)).  . 
 5.  Microloans to cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers Section 7(m) of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 636(m)(13) ) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: (14)  Assistance to cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers  The Administrator may not decline to make a loan or a grant under this subsection, and an eligible intermediary may not decline to provide assistance under this subsection to an otherwise eligible borrower, eligible intermediary, or eligible nonprofit entity (as applicable) solely because such borrower, intermediary, or nonprofit entity is a cannabis-related legitimate business or service provider (as defined in subsection (a)(38)).  . 
 6.  Small business investment company debentures to finance cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers Part A of title III of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 ( 15 U.S.C. 681  et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 321.  Debentures to finance cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers  (a)  Guarantees  The Administrator may not decline to purchase or guarantee a debenture made under this title to an otherwise eligible small business investment company solely because such small business investment company provides financing to an entity that is a cannabis-related legitimate business or service provider (as defined in section 7(a)(38) of the Small Business Act).  (b)  Other assistance  A small business investment company may not decline to provide assistance under this title to an otherwise eligible small business concern solely because such small business concern is a cannabis-related legitimate business or service provider (as defined in section 7(a)(38) of the Small Business Act). 
 . 
 7.  State or local development company loans to finance cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers Title V of the Small Business Investment Act of 1958 ( 15 U.S.C. 695  et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 511.  Loans to finance cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers  (a)  Loans and loan guarantees  The Administrator may not decline to make or provide a guarantee for a loan under this title to an otherwise eligible qualified State or local development company solely because such qualified State or local development company provides financing to an entity that is a cannabis-related legitimate business or service provider (as defined in section 7(a)(38) of the Small Business Act).  (b)  Other assistance  A qualified State or local development company may not decline to provide assistance under this title to an otherwise eligible small business concern solely because such small business concern is a cannabis-related legitimate business or service provider (as defined in section 7(a)(38) of the Small Business Act). 
 . 
 8.  Rulemaking  Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall issue or amend any rules, standard operating procedures, other legal or policy guidance necessary to carry out the requirements of this Act and the amendments made by this Act. 
