
 1.  Short title  This Act may be cited as the  Promoting Ties with Taiwan Act .
  2.  Findings  Congress makes the following findings: 
 (1) The Taiwan Relations Act of 1979 ( Public Law 96–8 ) states that it is the policy of the United States  to preserve and promote extensive, close, and friendly commercial, cultural, and other relations between the people of the United States and the people of Taiwan .  (2) The Taiwan Allies International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act of 2019 ( Public Law 116–135 ) states that it is the sense of Congress that the United States Government should  consider, in certain cases as appropriate and in alignment with United States interests, increasing its economic, security, and diplomatic engagement with nations that have demonstrably strengthened, enhanced, or upgraded relations with Taiwan .
 (3) The Taiwan Allies International Protection and Enhancement Initiative (TAIPEI) Act of 2019 ( Public Law 116–135 ) states that Taiwan is a free and democratic nation with full diplomatic ties with only 15 nations and that these diplomatic ties are under pressure from the Government of the People’s Republic of China.  (4)  Besides its 17 offices in 15 countries, Taiwan has a presence in 95 locations in 57 countries and regions. 
 (5)  The government of the Cooperative Republic of Guyana, under pressure from the Chinese government, decided unilaterally to terminate a bilateral agreement with Taiwan on the mutual establishment of offices on February 5, 2021, less than 24 hours after the accord was announced.   (6)  The government of the Republic of Lithuania has been facing political pressure and economic sanction from the Chinese government, since the announcement on July 20, 2021, that Taiwan will be establishing Taiwanese Representative Office in Vilnius, Lithuania’s capital. 
 (7)  Separately during a meeting and a phone call with Lithuanian Foreign Minister Gabrielius Landsbergis in September 2021, Secretary of State Antony Blinken and National Security Advisor Jake Sullivan each reaffirmed and reiterated strong United States support for Lithuania as it faces attempted coercion from China.   (8)  The United States remains committed to promoting the growth of Taiwan’s relations with other international partners. 

 3.  Diplomatic strategy 
 (a)  Statement of policy  It is the policy of the United States to—   (1)  work with its allies and partners to support Taiwan to expand its relations, partnership, and engagement with countries and partners in the Indo-Pacific region and around the world. 
 (2)  promote the establishment of a Taiwanese presence in countries and partners without such a permanent presence by wielding the diplomatic weight and reputation of the United States.   (3)  strengthen economic relations, trade ties, and supply chain resilience among Taiwan and like-minded partners to effectively counter the threats and malign influences from authoritarian regimes around the world. 
 (b)  Strategy  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a strategy to implement the policies specified in subsection (a).   (c)  Elements   (1)  In general  The strategy required under subsection (b) shall include the following elements: 
 (A)  An evaluation of future staffing and resourcing requirements of the Department of State and other relevant Federal agencies to fully implement the policies specified in subsection (a).   (B)  A strategy to help international partners in the process of, and after, establishing a permanent Taiwanese presence, to counter economic coercion and malign influences from authoritarian regimes that may attempt to intervene in such establishment. 
 (C)  A report to identify potential international partners, among those without a permanent Taiwanese presence, which could be motivated to build ties and relations with Taiwan in accordance with their interests and values.   (D)  A detailed description of how the United States Government will leverage diplomatic lines of effort and resources from other stakeholders (including those from foreign governments, international donors, and multilateral institutions) to facilitate stronger relations and dialogue between Taiwan and international partners without a permanent Taiwanese presence. 
 (E)  Recommendations to Congress regarding potential actions at the unilateral, bilateral, or multilateral level which could further implement such policies.   (2)  Form   (A)  Unclassified matters  The strategy required under subsection (b) and the elements described in subparagraphs (A), (B), and (E) of paragraph (1) shall be submitted in unclassified form. 
 (B)  Classified annex  The strategy required under subsection (b) shall also include a classified annex, transmitted separately, that contains the elements described in subparagraphs (C) and (D) of paragraph (1).   (d)  Report  Not later than one year after the submission of the strategy required under subsection (b), the Secretary of State shall submit to the appropriate Congressional committees a report detailing the actions taken to carry out such strategy. 
 (e)  Appropriate congressional committees defined In this section, the term  appropriate congressional committees  means—  (1)  the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and 
 (2)  the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate. 
 