 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Promoting Equitable Access to Paid Family Leave Act of 2021 .
 2.  Parental leave payments in lieu of child care assistance Section 418 of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 618 ) is amended— (1)  by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and  (2)  by inserting after subsection (c) the following:  (d)  Grant condition  (1)  In general  As a condition of receiving a grant under this section, a State shall provide the parent of an eligible child the option to receive, in accordance with this section, a payment, which may be made on a monthly, biweekly, or weekly basis, for each month in the parental leave period with respect to such eligible child, in lieu of receiving any child care services described in the Child Care and Development Block Grant Act of 1990 during the period.  (2)  Amount  The amount of a payment made pursuant to paragraph (1) with respect to an eligible child shall be not less than the average subsidy payment in the applicable market area within the State for the provision of child care services for infants, across all categories of care.  (3)  Application  To receive a payment pursuant to paragraph (1) with respect to an eligible child, the parent of the eligible child shall submit an application to the lead agency, or agency designated by the lead agency, of the applicable State before the beginning of the parental leave period with respect to the eligible child. The application shall include—  (A)  assurances by the applicant—  (i)  that the eligible child will not be receiving any child care services described in such Act during the period paid for by funds made available under this part; and  (ii)  that the applicant will not be receiving paid parental leave from any other source during the period;  (B)  documentation demonstrating that the applicant was working or attending a job training or educational program, as defined by the State, for at least 4 consecutive quarters ending on the date of application; and  (C)  any other such assurances or documentation the State may require.  (4)  Transition to child care services  A parent of an eligible child receiving a payment pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be provided the option to enroll in child care services provided under such Act immediately after the end of the parental leave period with respect to the eligible child.  (5)  Definitions  In this subsection:  (A)  Eligible child The term  eligible child  has the meaning given the term in section 658P(4) of such Act without regard to subparagraph (C). (B)  Lead agency The term  lead agency  has the meaning given the term with respect to a State in section 658D of such Act. (C)  Parental leave period The term  parental leave period  means the 3-month period beginning on the date of birth or adoption, as applicable, of an eligible child. (6)  Clarification  For purposes of subsection (b)(2), a payment pursuant to paragraph (1) of this subsection, shall be considered child care assistance.  . 
