 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  One In, Two Out Act .
 2.  Repeal of regulations required before issuance of a new rule  (1)  Requirement for rule  An agency may not issue a rule unless such agency has repealed two or more rules described in paragraph (4) that, to the extent practicable, are related to the rule.  (2)  Requirement for major rule  (A)  Repeal required  An agency may not issue a major rule unless—  (i)  such agency has repealed two or more rules described in paragraph (4) that, to the extent practicable, are related to the major rule; and  (ii)  the cost of the new major rule is less than or equal to the cost of the rules repealed.  (B)  Certified cost  For any rule issued in accordance with subparagraph (A), the Administrator of the Office of Information and Regulatory Affairs of the Office of Management and Budget must have certified that the cost of the new major rule is equal to or less that the cost of the rules repealed.  (3)  Publication required  Any rule repealed under paragraph (1) or (2) shall be published in the Federal Register.  (4)  Applicability  This section—  (A)  applies to any rule or major rule that imposes a cost or responsibility on a nongovernmental person or a State or local government; and  (B)  shall not apply to any rule or major rule—  (i)  that relates to the internal policy or practice of an agency or procurement by the agency; or  (ii)  that is being revised to be less burdensome to decrease requirements imposed by the rule or cost of compliance.  (5)  Definitions  In this section:  (A)  Agency The term  agency  has the meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code. (B)  Major rule The term  major rule  has the meaning given that term in section 804 of title 5, United States Code. (C)  Rule The term  rule  has the meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code. (D)  State The term  State  means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, each territory or possession of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian tribe.
