
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Our Lawn Act .
  2.  Prohibition on use of Federal property for political conventions or fundraising   (a)  In general Subchapter III of  chapter 73  of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 7325  the following:

 7325a.  Prohibition on use of Federal property for certain political activities 
 (a)  A convention of a national political party held to nominate a candidate for the office of President or Vice President, or any event at which a contribution is solicited or accepted for the campaign for election of any candidate for Federal office (as such terms are defined in section 301 of the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971), may not be held on or in any Federal property.   (b)  Any candidate or the authorized committee of the candidate under the Federal Election Campaign Act of 1971 which was responsible for a convention or event in violation of subsection (a) shall be subject to an assessment of a civil penalty equal to the fair market value of the cost of the convention or event (as the case may be) or $50,000, whichever is greater, or imprisoned not more than five years, or both. 
 (c) In this section, the term  Federal property  means any building, land, or other real property owned, leased, or occupied by any department, agency, or instrumentality of the United States, including the White House grounds and the White House (including the Old Executive Office Building, the West Wing, the East Wing, the Rose Garden, and the Executive Residence, but not including the second floor of the Executive Residence).
 .   (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections for such subchapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 7325 the following: 


 7325a. Prohibition on use of Federal property for certain political activities.  . 
 (c)  Application 
 (1)  In general  This Act and the amendments made by this Act shall apply to any convention or event described in section 7325a(a) of title 5, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), occurring on or after the date of enactment of this Act.    (2)  Travel  Nothing in this Act or the amendments made by this Act shall be construed to limit or otherwise prevent the President or Vice President from using vehicles (including aircraft) owned or leased by the Government for travel to or from any such convention or event. 

