 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Promoting Women in Trucking Workforce Act .
 2.  Findings  Congress finds that—  (1)  women make up 47 percent of the workforce of the United States;  (2)  women are significantly underrepresented in the trucking industry, holding only 24 percent of all transportation and warehousing jobs and representing only—  (A)  6.6 percent of truck drivers;  (B)  12.5 percent of all workers in truck transportation; and  (C)  8 percent of freight firm owners;  (3)  given the total number of women truck drivers, women are underrepresented in the truck-driving workforce; and  (4)  women truck drivers have been shown to be 20 percent less likely than male counterparts to be involved in a crash. 
 3.  Sense of Congress regarding women in trucking  It is the sense of Congress that the trucking industry should explore every opportunity to encourage and support the pursuit and retention of careers in trucking by women, including through programs that support recruitment, driver training, and mentorship. 
 4.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Administrator The term  Administrator  means the Administrator of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.  (2)  Board The term  Board  means the Women of Trucking Advisory Board established under section 5(a). (3)  Large trucking company The term  large trucking company  means a motor carrier (as defined in section 13102 of title 49, United States Code) with more than 100 power units. (4)  Mid-size trucking company The term  mid-size trucking company  means a motor carrier (as defined in section 13102 of title 49, United States Code) with not fewer than 11 power units and not more than 100 power units. (5)  Power unit The term  power unit  means a self-propelled vehicle under the jurisdiction of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration. (6)  Small trucking company The term  small trucking company  means a motor carrier (as defined in section 13102 of title 49, United States Code) with not fewer than 1 power unit and not more than 10 power units.
 5.  Women of trucking advisory board  (a)  Establishment To encourage women to enter the field of trucking, the Administrator shall establish and facilitate an advisory board, to be known as the  Women of Trucking Advisory Board , to promote organizations and programs that— (1)  provide education, training, mentorship, or outreach to women in the trucking industry; and  (2)  recruit, retain, or advance women in the trucking industry.  (b)  Membership  (1)  In general  The Board shall be composed of not fewer than 8 members whose backgrounds, experience, and certifications allow those members to contribute balanced points of view and diverse ideas regarding the strategies and objectives described in subsection (c)(2).  (2)  Appointment  (A)  In general  Not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall appoint the members of the Board, of whom—  (i)  not fewer than 1 shall be a representative of large trucking companies;  (ii)  not fewer than 1 shall be a representative of mid-sized trucking companies;  (iii)  not fewer than 1 shall be a representative of small trucking companies;  (iv)  not fewer than 1 shall be a representative of nonprofit organizations in the trucking industry;  (v)  not fewer than 1 shall be a representative of trucking business associations;  (vi)  not fewer than 1 shall be a representative of independent owner-operators;  (vii)  not fewer than 1 shall be a woman who is a professional truck driver; and  (viii)  not fewer than 1 shall be a representative of an institution of higher education or trucking trade school.  (B)  Diversity  A member of the Board appointed under any of clauses (i) through (viii) of subparagraph (A) may not be appointed under any other clause of that subparagraph.  (3)  Terms  Each member shall be appointed for the life of the Board.  (4)  Compensation  A member of the Board shall serve without compensation.  (c)  Duties  (1)  In general  The Board shall identify—  (A)  barriers and industry trends that directly or indirectly discourage women from pursuing and retaining careers in trucking, including—  (i)  any differences between women minority groups;  (ii)  any differences between women who live in rural, suburban, and urban areas; and  (iii)  any safety risks unique to the trucking industry;  (B)  ways in which the functions of trucking companies, nonprofit organizations, training and education providers, and trucking associations may be coordinated to facilitate support for women pursuing careers in trucking;  (C)  opportunities to expand existing opportunities for women in the trucking industry; and  (D)  opportunities to enhance trucking training, mentorship, education, advancement, and outreach programs that are exclusive to women.  (2)  Report  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Board shall submit to the Administrator a report describing strategies that the Administrator may adopt—  (A)  to address any industry trends identified under paragraph (1)(A);  (B)  to coordinate the functions of trucking companies, nonprofit organizations, and trucking associations in a manner that facilitates support for women pursuing careers in trucking;  (C)  (i)  to take advantage of any opportunities identified under paragraph (1)(C); and  (ii)  to create new opportunities to expand existing scholarship opportunities for women in the trucking industry; and  (D)  to enhance trucking training, mentorship, education, and outreach programs that are exclusive to women.  (d)  Report to congress  (1)  In general  Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report describing—  (A)  any strategies recommended by the Board under subsection (c)(2); and  (B)  any actions taken by the Administrator to adopt the strategies recommended by the Board (or an explanation of the reasons for not adopting the strategies).  (2)  Public availability  The Administrator shall make the report under paragraph (1) publicly available—  (A)  on the website of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration; and  (B)  in appropriate offices of the Federal Motor Carrier Safety Administration.  (e)  Termination  The Board shall terminate on submission of the report to Congress under subsection (d). 
