 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Department of Veterans Affairs Creation of On-Site Treatment Systems Affording Veterans Improvements and Numerous General Safety Enhancements Act  or the  VA COST SAVINGS Enhancements Act .
 2.  Use of on-site regulated medical waste treatment systems at Department of Veterans Affairs facilities  (a)  Identification of facilities  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall identify Department of Veterans Affairs facilities that would benefit from cost savings associated with the use of an on-site regulated medical waste treatment system over a five-year period.  (b)  Regulated medical waste cost analysis model  For purposes of carrying out subsection (a), the Secretary shall develop a uniform regulated medical waste cost analysis model to be used to determine the cost savings associated with the use of an on-site regulated medical waste treatment system at Department facilities. Such model shall be designed to calculate savings based on—  (1)  the cost of treating regulated medical waste at an off-site location under a contract with a non-Department entity; compared to  (2)  the cost of treating regulated medical waste on-site, based on the equipment specification of treatment system manufacturers, with capital costs amortized over a ten-year period.  (c)  Installation  At each Department facility identified under subsection (a), the Secretary shall secure, install, and operate an on-site regulated medical waste treatment system.  (d)  Use of blanket purchase agreement Any medical waste treatment system purchased pursuant to this section shall be purchased under the blanket purchase agreement known as the  VHA Regulated Medical Waste On-Site Treatment Equipment Systems Blanket Purchase Agreement  or any successor, contract, agreement, or other arrangement. (e)  Regulated medical waste defined In this section, the term  regulated medical waste  has the meaning given such term under section 173.134(a)(5) of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, concerning regulated medical waste and infectious substances, or any successor regulation, except that, in the case of an applicable State law that is more expansive, the definition in the State law shall apply.
 3.  No additional funds authorized  No additional funds are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the requirements of this Act. Such requirements shall be carried out using amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated. 
