 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  VA Governors Challenge Expansion Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Department of Veterans Affairs Governors Challenge grant program  (a)  Governors Challenge Program The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a grant program to be known as the  Governors Challenge Program  under which the Secretary shall provide technical assistance to States and American Indian and Alaska Native tribes for the development of veteran suicide prevention activities. (b)  Governors Challenge Implementation Grant Program  (1)  Authority The Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall carry out a grant program, to be known as the  Governors Challenge Implementation Grant Program  under which the Secretary shall make grants to eligible entities for the purpose of developing and implementing plans developed by the entities to prevent veteran suicides. (2)  Eligible entities  For purposes of the grant program under paragraph (1), an eligible entity is a State or an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe—  (A)  that—  (i) in the case of a State, develops a veteran suicide prevention plan, known as a  Governors Challenge Action Plan ; or (ii)  in the case of an American Indian or Alaska Native tribe, develops a veteran suicide prevention plan; and  (B)  that submits to the Secretary a proposal for the implementation of such plan that contains such information and assurances as the Secretary may require.  (3)  Award of grant  The Secretary shall award grants under this subsection as follows:  (A)  For fiscal year 2022, the Secretary shall award grants to 20 eligible entities.  (B)  For each of fiscal years 2023 and 2024, the Secretary shall award grants to 24 eligible entities.  (4)  Amount of grant; limitation  (A)  Amount  The recipient of a grant under this subsection shall receive an amount of not more than $500,000 for any fiscal year for a maximum of three years.  (B)  Limitation on use of funds  The recipient of a grant under this subsection may not use more than ten percent of the amount of the grant for administrative costs.  (5)  Authorization of appropriations  (A)  In general  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection—  (i)  $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2022;  (ii)  $12,000,000 for fiscal year 2023; and  (iii)  $14,000,000 for fiscal year 2024.  (B)  Relationship to other amounts  Amounts authorized to be appropriated pursuant to subparagraph (A) shall be in addition to any other amounts otherwise available for the Governors Challenge Program. 
