
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Bringing Registered Apprenticeships to Veterans Education Act  or the  BRAVE Act .
  2.  Education for separating members of the Armed Forces regarding registered apprenticeships Section 1144(b)(1) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting (including apprenticeship programs registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (50 Stat. 664; commonly referred to as the  National Apprenticeship Act ) and approved under chapters 30 through 36 of title 38) after  employment opportunities .

 3.  Websites regarding apprenticeship programs 
 (a)  Website under the jurisdiction of Secretary of Labor The Assistant Secretary of Labor for Veterans’ Employment and Training, in coordination with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall establish a user-friendly website (or update an existing website) that is available to the public on which veterans can find information about apprenticeship programs registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (50 Stat. 664; commonly referred to as the  National Apprenticeship Act ) and approved under chapters 30 through 36 of title 38, United States Code. Such information shall be searchable and sortable by occupation and location, and include, with regard to each such program, the following:  (1)  A description, including any cost to a veteran. 
 (2)  Contact information.   (3)  Whether the program has been endorsed by a veterans service organization or nonprofit organization that caters to veterans. 
 (4)  Whether the program prefers to hire veterans.   (5)  Each certification or degree an individual earns by completing the program. 
 (b)  Coordination with other website  The Assistant Secretary shall update all information regarding programs for veterans listed on apprenticeship.gov (or any successor website) to include the information specified under subsection (a). 
  4.  Determination of budgetary effects The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled  Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation  for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage. 

