 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Fair-Value Accounting and Budget Act . 
 2.  Fair-value credit estimates  (a)  Fair-Value estimates  Part A of title IV of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 is amended by adding at the end the following:  407.  Fair-value credit estimates  (a)  Fair-Value estimates  Upon the request of the chair or the ranking member of the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives or the Senate, any estimate prepared by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office for a measure that establishes or modifies any program providing loans or loan guarantees shall, as a supplement to such estimate and to the extent practicable, provide a fair-value estimate of such loan or loan guarantee program.  (b)  Baseline estimates The Congressional Budget Office shall include estimates of loan and loan guarantee programs, on a fair-value and credit reform basis, as practicable, in its The Budget and Economic Outlook. (c)  Enforcement  If the Director of the Congressional Budget Office provides an estimate pursuant to subsection (a), the chair of the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives or the Senate may use such estimate to determine compliance with this Act and other budget enforcement requirements.  (d)  Annual report  In 2021 and each year thereafter, not later than 90 days after the date the President submits to Congress a budget under section 1105(a) of title 31, United States Code, the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall submit a report, to the Committees on the Budget of the House of Representatives and the Senate, on fair-value estimates of the cost of Federal credit programs.  (e)  Definition of fair-Value In carrying out this section, the Director of the Congressional Budget Office and the Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall use the definition of  fair-value  as set forth in the publication of the Government Accounting Standards Board issued in February 2015 and entitled  Fair Value Measurement and Application .
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of contents for the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 Act set forth in section 1(b) of such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 406 the following new item:   Sec. 407. Fair-value credit estimates.  . 
