
 1.  Short Title This Act may be cited as the  National Foundation on Fitness, Sports, & Nutrition Act  or the  NFFSN Act .
  2.  Establishment and Purpose of Foundation   (a)  Funding and support services Section 2 of the National Foundation on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition Establishment Act ( 36 U.S.C. 20101  note) is amended—
 (1)  by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:     (c)  Federal Grants  The Foundation may be eligible for a federal grant if the Foundation meets the eligibility requirements for the grant.   ; and 
 (2)  by adding at the end the following:    (d)  Funding  To the extent permitted by law and subject to the availability of funds, the Secretary of Health and Human Services may provide funding, facilities, utilities, and other administrative support services to the Foundation.   . 
 (b)  Board of Directors 
 (1)  Board Composition Section 3(a) of such Act ( 36 U.S.C. 20101  note) is amended—  (A) by striking  Establishment and Membership  and inserting  Establishment and Composition ;
 (B) by striking The Foundation shall have a governing Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to in this Act as the  Board ), which shall consist of 9 members each of whom shall be a United States citizen and— and inserting:   (1)  In general The Foundation shall have a governing Board of Directors (hereinafter referred to in this Act as the  Board ), each of whom shall be a United States citizen and— ; 
 (C) in paragraph (1), by striking  3 of whom  and inserting  at least 3 of whom ;  (D) in paragraph (2), by striking  6 of whom  and inserting  at least 6 of whom ;
 (E)  by redesignating paragraphs (1) and (2) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;   (F) by striking  The membership of the Board  and inserting:

 (2)  Membership  The membership of the Board  ; and   (G)  by adding at the end the following: 

 (3)  Number of members  The Board shall consist of at least 9 members and the Board may amend the bylaws of the Foundation to increase the number of members of the Board.  .   (2)  Board Appointments Section 3(b) of such Act ( 36 U.S.C. 20101  note) is amended to read as follows:

 (b)  Appointments  Members of the Board shall be appointed by the Board by majority approval.   .   (3)  Board Terms Section 3(c) of such Act ( 36 U.S.C. 20101  note) is amended by striking  in the same manner in which the original appointment was made  and inserting  in the manner required by subsection (b) . 
 (4)  Board Salary Section 3(h)(1) of such Act ( 36 U.S.C. 20101  note) is amended by striking the second sentence.   (c)  Protection of Trademarks Section 5(a) of such Act ( 36 U.S.C. 20101  note) is amended by striking  may be provided only by the Foundation with the concurrence of the Secretary or the Secretary’s designee  and inserting  may be provided only by the Foundation .

 3.  Effective Date 
 (a)  In General  The amendments made by this Act shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.   (b)  Board Appointment Rule The amendments made to sections 3(b) and 3(c) of the National Foundation on Fitness, Sports, and Nutrition Establishment Act ( 36 U.S.C. 20101  note) by this Act shall apply to all vacancies on the Board of Directors of the National Foundation of Fitness, Sport, and Nutrition and expirations of a Board member’s term occurring on or after the date of enactment of this Act. 

