 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Commission To Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture Act .
 2.  Establishment of Commission  (a)  In general There is established the Commission to Study the Potential Creation of a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture (hereafter in this Act referred to as the  Commission ). (b)  Membership  The Commission shall be composed of 8 members, of whom—  (1)  2 members shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate;  (2)  2 members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives;  (3)  2 members shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate; and  (4)  2 members shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.  (c)  Qualifications  Members of the Commission shall be appointed to the Commission from among individuals, or representatives of institutions or entities, who possess—  (1)  (A)  a demonstrated commitment to the research, study, or promotion of Asian Pacific American history, art, political or economic status, or culture; and  (B)  (i)  expertise in museum administration;  (ii)  expertise in fundraising for nonprofit or cultural institutions;  (iii)  experience in the study and teaching of Asian Pacific American history;  (iv)  experience in studying the issue of the representation of Asian Pacific Americans in art, life, history, and culture at the Smithsonian Institution; or  (v)  extensive experience in public or elected service;  (2)  experience in the administration of, or the planning for, the establishment of, museums; or  (3)  experience in the planning, design, or construction of museum facilities.  (d)  Deadline for initial appointment  The initial members of the Commission shall be appointed not later than the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act.  (e)  Vacancies  A vacancy in the Commission—  (1)  shall not affect the powers of the Commission; and  (2)  shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.  (f)  Chairperson  The Commission shall, by majority vote of all of the members, select 1 member of the Commission to serve as the Chairperson of the Commission. 
 3.  Duties of the Commission  (a)  Reports  (1)  Plan of action The Commission shall submit to the President and Congress a report containing the recommendations of the Commission with respect to a plan of action for the establishment and maintenance of a National Museum of Asian Pacific American History and Culture in Washington, DC (hereafter in this Act referred to as the  Museum ). (2)  Report on issues  The Commission shall submit to the President and Congress a report that addresses the following issues:  (A)  The availability and cost of collections to be acquired and housed in the Museum.  (B)  The impact of the Museum on regional Asian Pacific American history-related museums.  (C)  Potential locations for the Museum in Washington, DC, and its environs.  (D)  Whether the Museum should be part of the Smithsonian Institution.  (E)  The governance and organizational structure from which the Museum should operate.  (F)  Best practices for engaging Asian Pacific Americans in the development and design of the Museum.  (G)  The cost of constructing, operating, and maintaining the Museum.  (3)  Deadline  The reports required under paragraphs (1) and (2) shall be submitted not later than the date that is 18 months after the date of the first meeting of the Commission.  (b)  Fundraising plan  (1)  In general  The Commission shall develop a fundraising plan to support the establishment, operation, and maintenance of the Museum through contributions from the public.  (2)  Considerations  In developing the fundraising plan under paragraph (1), the Commission shall consider issues relating to funding the operations and maintenance of the Museum in perpetuity without reliance on appropriations of Federal funds.  (3)  Independent review  The Commission shall obtain an independent review of the viability of the plan developed under paragraph (1) and such review shall include an analysis as to whether the plan is likely to achieve the level of resources necessary to fund the construction of the Museum and the operations and maintenance of the Museum in perpetuity without reliance on appropriations of Federal funds.  (4)  Submission  The Commission shall submit the plan developed under paragraph (1) and the review conducted under paragraph (3) to the Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, House Administration, Natural Resources, and Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Rules and Administration, Energy and Natural Resources, and Appropriations of the Senate.  (c)  Legislation To carry out plan of action  Based on the recommendations contained in the report submitted under paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (a), the Commission shall submit for consideration to the Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure, House Administration, Natural Resources, and Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committees on Rules and Administration, Energy and Natural Resources, and Appropriations of the Senate recommendations for a legislative plan of action to establish and construct the Museum.  (d)  National conference  Not later than 18 months after the date on which the initial members of the Commission are appointed under section 2, the Commission may, in carrying out the duties of the Commission under this section, convene a national conference relating to the Museum, to be comprised of individuals committed to the advancement of the life, art, history, and culture of Asian Pacific Americans. 
 4.  Administrative provisions  (a)  Compensation  Each member of the Commission who is not an officer or employee of the Federal Government may receive compensation for each day on which the member is engaged in the work of the Commission, at a daily rate to be determined by the Secretary of the Interior.  (b)  Facilities and support of Department of the Interior  The Department of the Interior shall provide from funds appropriated for this purpose administrative services, facilities, and funds necessary for the performance of the Commission’s functions. These funds shall be made available prior to any meetings of the Commission.  (c)  Travel expenses A member of the Commission shall be allowed a per diem allowance for travel expenses, at rates consistent with those authorized under subchapter I of  chapter 57  of title 5, United States Code. (d)  Federal Advisory Committee Act  The Commission shall not be subject to the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.). 
 5.  Termination  The Commission shall terminate on the date that is 30 days after the date on which the final versions of the reports required under section 3 are submitted. 
 6.  Authorization of appropriations  (a)  In general  There is authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this Act.  (b)  Availability  Amounts made available under subsection (a) shall remain available until expended, or until the termination of the Commission, whichever comes first. 
