 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Confederate Monument Removal Act .
 2.  Requirements and removal procedures  (a)  Requirements Section 1814 of the Revised Statutes ( 2 U.S.C. 2131 ) is amended by inserting  (other than persons who served voluntarily with the Confederate States of America)  after  military services . (b)  Statue removal procedures  (1)  In general  The Architect of the Capitol shall—  (A) identify all statues on display in the United States Capitol that do not meet the requirements of section 1814 of the Revised Statutes ( 2 U.S.C. 2131 ), as amended by subsection (a); and (B)  subject to the approval of the Joint Committee on the Library of Congress, arrange for the removal of each such statue from the Capitol by not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act.  (2)  Removal and return of statues  In the case of a statue that is removed under this subsection which was provided for display by a State, the Architect of the Capitol shall arrange to transfer and deliver the statue and transfer ownership of the statue to the State if the State so requests and agrees to pay any costs related to the transportation of the statue to the State.  (3)  Replacement of statues A State that has a statue removed under this subsection shall be able to replace such statue in accordance with the requirements and procedures of section 1814 of the Revised Statutes ( 2 U.S.C. 2131 ) and section 311 of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2001 ( 2 U.S.C. 2132 ). (4)  Authorization and appropriations  (A)  In general  There are appropriated for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2021, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, $2,000,000 to the Architect of the Capitol to carry out this section, including the costs related to the removal, transfer, security, storage, and display of the statues described in paragraph (1)(A).  (B)  Availability  Amounts appropriated under subparagraph (A) shall remain available until expended. 
