 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the January 8 th  National Memorial Act.
 2.  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1) The tragedy of January 8, 2011, at Congresswoman Gabrielle Gifford’s  Congress on Your Corner  event resulted in the deaths of 6 people (Christina-Taylor Green, Dorothy Morris, U.S. District Court Judge John Roll, Phyllis Schneck, Dorwan Stoddard, and Gabe Zimmerman) and injury of 13 others (Congresswoman Giffords, Bill Badger, Ron Barber, Kenneth Dorushka, James Eric Fuller, Randy Gardner, Susan Hileman, George Morris, Mary Reed, Pam Simon, Mavanell Stoddard, Jim Tucker, and Kenneth Veeder). (2)  This was the first time in the history of the United States that an assassination attempt was made upon a Congressional Member while she was meeting with constituents.  (3)  Congresswoman Giffords sustained severe injuries that affect her to this day.  (4)  Gabe Zimmerman was the first Congressional staffer to be assassinated in the line of duty.  (5)  The Arizona community and people from all over the world came together in the days that followed the tragedy to provide comfort and support to one another at three spontaneous memorial vigil sites—  (A)  the shopping center where the shooting took place;  (B)  the front lawn of University Medical Center, where many of the victims were treated; and  (C)  at Congresswoman Giffords’ Tucson district office.  (6) Tucson’s January 8 th  Memorial will not only be a tribute to those who died that day, but also to the local, national, and international response to the tragedy. (7)  The memorial will be constructed, managed, and maintained to be a place where visitors, young and old, can learn not only about one horrific event, but about the resilience of a community and the durability of democracy in the United States. 
 3. January 8 TH  National Memorial (a)  Definitions  (1)  Memorial The term  Memorial  means the January 8 th  National Memorial. (2)  Foundation The term  Foundation  means the Tucson’s January 8 th  Memorial Foundation, an organization described in  section 501(c)(3)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of that Code. (3)  Map The term  map  means the map entitled  Phase 1 Siteplan + Survey Plan , numbered LA_2.01, and dated November 11, 2016. (4)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior. (b) January 8 TH  National Memorial (1)  Establishment  As soon as practicable, the Secretary shall establish the Memorial as an affiliated area of the National Park System.  (2)  Funding  The Foundation shall transfer to Pima County amounts equal to final funding pledges, in addition to amounts that the Foundation has raised and transferred to Pima County for construction of the Memorial.  (3)  Memorial construction  The Memorial shall be constructed on property owned by Pima County. Pima County shall be responsible for managing the Memorial construction contract using funds provided by the Foundation.  (4)  Foundation dissolution  The Foundation shall cease to operate after—  (A)  final funding pledge amounts have been paid to Pima Country; and  (B)  construction of the Memorial is complete.  (5)  Management entity  Pima County shall be—  (A)  the management entity for the Memorial; and  (B)  responsible for the construction, operation, maintenance, and management of the Memorial.  (6)  Availability of map  The map shall be on file and available for public inspection at the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.  (7)  Cooperative agreements  The Secretary may provide technical assistance and enter into cooperative agreements with Pima County for the purpose of providing financial assistance with marketing of the Memorial.  (8)  Limited role of the Secretary  Nothing in this Act authorizes the Secretary to acquire property or to use Federal funds for the construction, operation, maintenance, or management of the Memorial.  (9)  General management plan  (A)  In general  The Secretary, in consultation with the Pima County, shall develop a general management plan for the Memorial. The plan shall be prepared in accordance with section 100502 of title 54, United States Code.  (B)  Transmittal  Not later than 3 years after the Memorial is established by the Secretary, the Secretary shall provide of a copy of the completed general management plan to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate. 
