
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Courthouse Ethics and Transparency Act .
  2.  Periodic transaction reports and online publication of financial disclosure reports of Federal judicial officers   (a)  Periodic transaction reporting requirement for Federal judicial officers   (1)  In general  Section 103(l) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended by adding at the end the following: 

 (11)  Each judicial officer.  .   (2)  Effective date  The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall apply to applicable transactions occurring on or after the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act. 
 (b)  Online publication of financial disclosure reports of Federal judicial officers  Section 105 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended—   (1)  by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (d) and (e), respectively; and 
 (2)  by inserting after subsection (b) the following:     (c)  Online publication of financial disclosure reports of judicial officers   (1)  Establishment of database Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of the  Courthouse Ethics and Transparency Act , the Administrative Office of the United States Courts shall establish a searchable internet database to enable public access to any report required to be filed by a judicial officer under this title.
 (2)  Availability  Not later than 90 days after the date on which a report is required to be filed under this title by a judicial officer, the Administrative Office of the United States Courts shall make the report available on the database established under paragraph (1) in a full-text searchable, sortable, and downloadable format for access by the public.    (3)  Redaction  Any report made available on the database established under paragraph (1) shall not contain any information that is redacted in accordance with subsection (b)(3).  . 
 (c)  Technical and conforming amendments 
 (1)  Section 103(l) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) (as amended by subsection (a)(1)) is amended—   (A) in paragraph (9), by striking  , as defined under section 109(12) ; and
 (B) in paragraph (10), by striking  , as defined under section 109(13) .   (2)  Section 105 of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) (as amended by subsection (b)) is amended— 
 (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking  be revealing  and inserting  by revealing ; and  (B)  in subsection (b)— 
 (i)  in paragraph (1)—   (I) in the first sentence, by striking  be,,  and inserting  be, ; and
 (II) in the third sentence, by striking  may be may  and inserting  may be, may ; and  (ii) in paragraph (3)(A), by striking  described in section 109(8) or 109(10) of this Act  and inserting  who is a judicial officer or a judicial employee . 
 (3) Section 107(a)(1) of the Ethics in Government Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App) is amended in the last sentence by striking  and (d)  and inserting  and (e) .
 