 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  National Jazz Preservation, Education, and Promulgation Act of 2021 .
 2.  National Jazz Preservation Program  (a)  Establishment  There is established a National Jazz Preservation Program, to be carried out by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution through the Director of the National Museum of American History and in collaboration with other Smithsonian museums, to preserve knowledge and promote education about jazz.  (b)  Program components  Under the National Jazz Preservation Program, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution shall—  (1)  record audio and video interviews with leading jazz artists;  (2)  acquire and preserve jazz artifacts, and interpret the artifacts through activities such as exhibitions and performances by the Smithsonian Jazz Masterworks Orchestra;  (3)  continue to recognize Jazz Appreciation Month;  (4)  establish, with governmental agencies, universities, museums, and community-based organizations with jazz archival collections, collaborative agreements for the sharing of jazz artifacts; and  (5)  encourage, consult with, and engage in capacity building with community-based and regional organizations with the potential to establish jazz archival collections.  (c)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $2,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2023, to remain available until expended. 
 3.  Jazz education in elementary and secondary schools Section 4107(a)(3) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7117(a)(3) ) is amended— (1) in subparagraph (I), by striking  or  at the end; (2)  by redesignating subparagraph (J) as subparagraph (K); and  (3)  by inserting after subparagraph (I) the following:  (J)  programs to promote jazz education, which may include—  (i)  a Jazz Artists in the Schools program to provide support for State arts agencies to bring jazz artists to elementary and secondary schools in collaboration with local educational agencies;  (ii)  a program for—  (I)  the development by jazz artists and educators of lesson plans and other educational materials about jazz;  (II)  the distribution of such educational materials by organizations that may include the National Endowment for the Arts, educational institutions, State and local arts and cultural organizations, or nonprofit organizations; and  (III)  teacher training on jazz education by jazz artists and educators; and  (iii)  an Ambassadors of Jazz program to send jazz musicians, and jazz orchestras from secondary schools, abroad to perform for diverse audiences on missions of goodwill, education, and cultural exchange, in collaboration with the Secretary of State; or  . 
 4.  National Jazz Appreciation Program  (a)  Establishment  There is established a National Jazz Appreciation Program, to be carried out by the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution through the Director of the National Museum of American History and in collaboration with other Smithsonian museums and affiliates, the National Endowment for the Arts, and the National Endowment for the Humanities, to further the appreciation of jazz music throughout the Nation.  (b)  Program components  Under the National Jazz Appreciation Program, the Secretary of the Smithsonian Institution shall establish a series of jazz performances at Smithsonian affiliates throughout the Nation that provides broad geographic access to jazz and supports public appreciation for the diversity of jazz music.  (c)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2023, to remain available until expended. 
