 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Connecting Communities Post Disasters Act of 2021 .
 2.  Application of NEPA and NHPA to covered communications projects  (a)  NEPA exemption A covered project shall not be subject to the requirements of section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ( 42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C) ). (b)  National Historic Preservation Act exemption  A covered project shall not be considered an undertaking under section 300320 of title 54, United States Code.  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Communications facility The term  communications facility  includes— (A)  any wireless or wireline infrastructure for the transmission of writing, signs, signals, data, images, pictures, or sounds of all kinds;  (B)  any transmitting device, tower, or support structure, and any equipment, switches, wiring, cabling, power sources, shelters, or cabinets, associated with the provision of communications services; and  (C)  any antenna or apparatus that—  (i)  is designed for the purpose of emitting radio frequency;  (ii)  is designed to be operated, or is operating, from a fixed location; and  (iii)  is added to a tower, building, or other structure.  (2)  Communications service The term  communications service  means a service for the transmission of writing, signs, signals, data, images, pictures, or sounds of all kinds. (3)  Covered project The term  covered project  means a project that— (A) is to be carried out within an area for which the President has declared a major disaster or an emergency under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5121  et seq.); (B)  is to be carried out not later than 5 years after the date on which the President made such declaration; and  (C)  replaces a communications facility damaged by such disaster or emergency or makes improvements to a communications facility in such area that could reasonably be considered as necessary for recovery from such disaster or emergency or to prevent or mitigate future disasters or emergencies. 
