 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Local Telecom Expansion Act of 2021 .
 2.  Small business broadband provider grant program  (a)  Establishment  The Commission shall establish a program to make grants on a competitive basis to States for the deployment of broadband service in underserved areas by small business broadband providers.  (b)  Eligibility of States  The Commission may only award a grant under this section to a State that—  (1)  meets such eligibility criteria as the Commission may establish; and  (2)  submits an application at such time, in such form, and with such information and assurances as the Commission may require.  (c)  Subgrants to small business broadband providers  A State that receives a grant under this section shall use the grant funds to make subgrants to small business broadband providers to enable such providers to deploy broadband service in underserved areas in the State.  (d)  Use of subgrant funds  A small business broadband provider that receives a subgrant from a State under subsection (c) shall use the subgrant funds to deploy, in underserved areas in the State, broadband service with—  (1)  a download speed of at least 25 megabits per second;  (2)  an upload speed of at least 10 megabits per second; and  (3)  latency that is sufficiently low to allow real-time, interactive applications.  (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Broadband service The term  broadband service  means broadband internet access service (as defined in section 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (or any successor regulation)). (2)  Commission The term  Commission  means the Federal Communications Commission. (3)  Small business broadband provider The term  small business broadband provider  means a provider of broadband service that is a small business concern (as defined under section 3 of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 632 )). (4)  State The term  State  means each State of the United States, the District of Columbia, each commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe. (5)  Underserved area The term  underserved area  means an area in which only 1 provider of broadband service offers broadband service with— (A)  a download speed of at least 25 megabits per second and not more than 99 megabits per second;  (B)  an upload speed of at least 10 megabits per second; and  (C)  latency that is sufficiently low to allow real-time, interactive applications. 
