 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Hire A Hero Act of 2021 .
 2.  Work opportunity credit to small businesses for hiring members of Ready Reserve or National Guard  (a)  In general  Section 51(d)(1)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  or  at the end of subparagraph (I), by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (J) and inserting  , or , and by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: (K)  in the case of an eligible employer (as defined in section 408(p)(2)(C)(i)), an individual who is a member of—  (i)  the Ready Reserve (as described in section 10142 of title 10, United States Code), or  (ii)  the National Guard (as defined in section 101(c)(1) of title 10, United States Code).  .  (b)  Effective date  (1)  In general  The amendment made by this section shall apply to wages paid or incurred after the date of the enactment of this Act in taxable years ending after such date.  (2)  Current employees covered by credit For purposes of applying  section 51  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, individuals described in section 51(d)(1)(K) of such Code, as added by this section, who are employed by an eligible employer (as defined in section 408(p)(2)(C)(i) of such Code) on the date of the enactment of this Act shall be treated as beginning work for such employer on such date.
 3.  Permanent extension of work opportunity credit for employers hiring qualified veterans and members of Ready Reserve and National Guard  (a)  In general  Section 51(c)(4)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting  (other than any individual described in subparagraph (B) or (K) of subsection (d)(1))  after  individual . (b)  Effective date  The amendment made by this section shall apply to individuals who begin work for the employer after December 31, 2020. 
 4.  Treatment of possessions  (a)  Payments to possessions  (1)  Mirror code possessions  The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay to each possession of the United States with a mirror code tax system amounts equal to the loss to that possession by reason of the amendments made by this Act. Such amounts shall be determined by the Secretary of the Treasury based on information provided by the government of the respective possession of the United States.  (2)  Other possessions  The Secretary of the Treasury shall pay to each possession of the United States which does not have a mirror code tax system the amount estimated by the Secretary of the Treasury as being equal to the loss to that possession that would have occurred by reason of the amendments made by this Act if a mirror code tax system had been in effect in such possession. The preceding sentence shall not apply with respect to any possession of the United States unless such possession establishes to the satisfaction of the Secretary that the possession has implemented (or, at the discretion of the Secretary, will implement) an income tax benefit which is substantially equivalent to the income tax credit in effect after the amendments made by this Act.  (b)  Coordination with credit allowed against united states income taxes The credit allowed against United States income taxes for any taxable year under the amendments made by this Act to  section 51  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 to any person shall be reduced by the amount of any credit (or other tax benefit described in subsection (a)(2)) allowed to such person against income taxes imposed by the possession of the United States by reason of this section for such taxable year. (c)  Definitions and special rules  (1)  Possession of the United States For purposes of this section, the term  possession of the United States  shall include such possessions as are specified in  section 937(a)(1)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (2)  Mirror code tax system For purposes of this section, the term  mirror code tax system  means, with respect to any possession of the United States, the income tax system of such possession if the income tax liability of the residents of such possession under such system is determined by reference to the income tax laws of the United States as if such possession were the United States. (3)  Treatment of payments  For purposes of section 1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, the payments under subsection (a) shall be treated in the same manner as a refund due from credit provisions described in such section. 
