 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Prevent Corrupting Foreign Influence Act .
 2.  Foreign influence over the President and Vice President  (a)  In general  Chapter 11  of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 227A.  Foreign influence over the President and Vice President  (a)  Prohibition  Except as provided in subsection (b), whoever, being a covered person or covered entity, knowingly—  (1)  accepts anything of value from a foreign state or foreign entity; or  (2)  receives anything of value from a foreign state or foreign entity,  shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.   (b)  Exceptions  Subsection (a) shall not apply—  (1)  in the case of any investment by a foreign state or entity in a mutual fund, which includes a covered entity in its portfolio;  (2)  in the case of any investment by a foreign state or entity in an asset held in a blind trust on behalf of a covered person;  (3)  in the case that the thing accepted or received is of minimal value, and any other thing or things accepted or received by such covered person or covered entity from such foreign state or foreign entity during that calendar year do not exceed minimal value; or  (4) in any case in which the covered person acted in accordance with section 7342 of title 5 or the Mutual Education and Cultural Exchange Act of 1961 ( 22 U.S.C. 2451  et seq.). (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  covered person  means the President, Vice President, and their immediate family members. (2) The term  covered entity  means any entity in which a covered person has not less than a 50 percent ownership interest. (3) The term  immediate family member  means, with respect to the President or Vice President, a parent, parent-in-law, spouse, child, or sibling of the President or Vice President. (4) The term  foreign entity  means any entity in which a foreign state has not less than a 50 percent ownership interest. (5) The term  minimal value  has the meaning given that term in section 7342(a)(5) of title 5.
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections for  chapter 11  of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item related to section 227 the following: 227A. Foreign influence over the President and Vice President.   . 
 3.  Receipt and disposition of foreign gifts and decorations  Section 7342(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subparagraph (F), by striking  and  at the end; and (2)  by inserting after subparagraph (G) the following:  (H)  a parent, parent-in-law, child, or sibling of the President or Vice President.  . 
