 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Unlawful Gun Buyer Alert Act .
 2.  Notification to law enforcement agencies of prohibited purchase or attempted purchase of a firearm  (a)  In general Title I of the NICS Improvement Amendments Act of 2007 ( 34 U.S.C. 40911–40917 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: 108.  Notification to law enforcement agencies of prohibited purchase or attempted purchase of a firearm  (a)  In general  In the case of a background check conducted by the National Instant Criminal Background Check System pursuant to the request of a licensed importer, licensed manufacturer, or licensed dealer of firearms (as such terms are defined in section 921 of title 18, United States Code), which background check determines that the receipt of a firearm by a person would violate subsection (g) or (n) of section 922 of such title, including any such case in which the determination is made after 3 business days have elapsed since the licensee contacted the System and a firearm has been transferred to that person, the System shall notify the law enforcement agencies described in subsection (b) of this section.  (b)  Law enforcement agencies described  The law enforcement agencies described in this subsection are the law enforcement agencies that have jurisdiction over the location from which the licensee contacted the system and the law enforcement agencies that have jurisdiction over the location of the residence of the person for which the background check was conducted, as follows:  (1)  The field office of the Federal Bureau of Investigation.  (2)  The local law enforcement agency.  (3)  The State law enforcement agency.  (c)  Report to the Congress  Within 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, and annually thereafter, the Attorney General shall submit to the Congress a written report on the notifications provided under subsection (a) during the period covered by the report, including the number of the notifications, and such other relevant information as the Attorney General deems appropriate. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of contents of such Act ( 34 U.S.C. 10101  note) is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 107 the following: 108. Notification to law enforcement agencies of prohibited purchase or attempted purchase of a firearm.  . 
