 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Even Playing Field Act .
 2.  Pay equity for amateur athletes and other personnel  (a)  Purposes of the U.S. Olympic and Paralympic Committee Section 220503(12) of the title 36, United States Code, is amended by inserting  including investment, promotional support, working conditions including staff support and facilities and equipment for training and competition, and wages, stipends and other compensation, equal to that afforded to amateur athletic activities for men  before the semicolon. (b)  Eligibility requirements for amateur sports organizations as national governing bodies  Section 220522(a)(8) of the title 36, United States Code, is amended—  (1) by striking  an equal opportunity  and inserting  and demonstrates equal opportunity, including in investment, promotional support, working conditions including staff support and facilities and equipment for training and competition, and wages, stipends and other compensation, ; and (2) by inserting  and other activities  after  athletic competition . (c)  General duties of national governing bodies Section 220524(6) of the title 36, United States Code, is amended by inserting  , including in investment, promotional support, working conditions including staff support and facilities and equipment for training and competition, and wages, stipends and other compensation  before the semicolon. (d)  Reports on pay equity  (1)  In general  Subchapter II of chapter 2205 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following:  220530A.  Reports on pay equity  (a)  In general  Each national governing body shall submit to Congress a report on the compensation of amateur athletes, coaches, trainers, managers, administrators, and officials in the sport governed by the national governing body for—  (1)  each of the two consecutive calendar years ending immediately before the date of the enactment of this section; and  (2)  each calendar year beginning after the date of the enactment of this section.  (b)  Matters To be included  Each report required by subsection (a) shall include, with respect to the applicable sport, for the calendar year covered by the report—  (1)  the median compensation for amateur athletes, coaches, trainers, managers, administrators, and officials disaggregated by race, gender, and employment category; and  (2)  the minimum and maximum compensation paid to amateur athletes, coaches, trainers, managers, administrators, and officials, disaggregated by race, gender, and employment category. 
 .  (2)  Conforming amendment The table of sections for  chapter 2205  of title 36, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: Sec. 220530A. Reports on pay equity.  .  (e)  Retroactive effective date  The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date that is 2 years before the date of the enactment of this Act.  (f)  Severability  If any provision of this Act, an amendment made by this Act, or the application of such provision or amendment to any person or circumstance is held to be unconstitutional, the remainder of this Act and the amendments made by this Act, and the application of the provision or amendment to any other person or circumstance, shall not be affected. 
