 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  English Language Unity Act of 2021 .
 2.  Findings  The Congress finds and declares the following:  (1)  The United States is composed of individuals from diverse ethnic, cultural, and linguistic backgrounds, and continues to benefit from this rich diversity.  (2)  Throughout the history of the United States, the common thread binding individuals of differing backgrounds has been the English language.  (3)  Among the powers reserved to the States respectively is the power to establish the English language as the official language of the respective States, and otherwise to promote the English language within the respective States, subject to the prohibitions enumerated in the Constitution of the United States and in laws of the respective States. 
 3.  English as official language of the United States  (a)  In general  Title 4, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new chapter:  6  Official language  161.  Official language of the United States  The official language of the United States is English. 
 162.  Preserving and enhancing the role of the official language  Representatives of the Federal Government shall have an affirmative obligation to preserve and enhance the role of English as the official language of the Federal Government. Such obligation shall include encouraging greater opportunities for individuals to learn the English language. 
 163.  Official functions of Government to be conducted in English  (a)  Official functions  The official functions of the Government of the United States shall be conducted in English.  (b)  Scope For the purposes of this section, the term  United States  means the several States and the District of Columbia, and the term  official  refers to any function that (i) binds the Government, (ii) is required by law, or (iii) is otherwise subject to scrutiny by either the press or the public. (c)  Practical effect  This section shall apply to all laws, public proceedings, regulations, publications, orders, actions, programs, and policies, but does not apply to—  (1)  teaching of languages;  (2)  requirements under the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act;  (3)  actions, documents, or policies necessary for national security, international relations, trade, tourism, or commerce;  (4)  actions or documents that protect the public health and safety;  (5)  actions or documents that facilitate the activities of the Bureau of the Census in compiling any census of population;  (6)  actions that protect the rights of victims of crimes or criminal defendants; or  (7)  using terms of art or phrases from languages other than English. 
 164.  Uniform English language rule for naturalization  (a)  Uniform language testing standard  All citizens should be able to read and understand generally the English language text of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the laws of the United States made in pursuance of the Constitution.  (b)  Ceremonies  All naturalization ceremonies shall be conducted in English. 
 165.  Rules of construction  Nothing in this chapter shall be construed—  (1)  to prohibit a Member of Congress or any officer or agent of the Federal Government, while performing official functions, from communicating unofficially through any medium with another person in a language other than English (as long as official functions are performed in English);  (2)  to limit the preservation or use of Native Alaskan or Native American languages (as defined in the Native American Languages Act);  (3)  to disparage any language or to discourage any person from learning or using a language; or  (4)  to be inconsistent with the Constitution of the United States. 
 166.  Standing A person injured by a violation of this chapter may in a civil action (including an action under  chapter 151  of title 28) obtain appropriate relief.
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of chapters at the beginning of title 4, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to chapter 5 the following new item:  Chapter 6. Official Language  . 
 4.  General rules of construction for English language texts of the laws of the United States  (a)  In general  Chapter 1  of title 1, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 9.  General rules of construction for laws of the United States  (a)  English language requirements and workplace policies, whether in the public or private sector, shall be presumptively consistent with the laws of the United States.  (b)  Any ambiguity in the English language text of the laws of the United States shall be resolved, in accordance with the last two articles of the Bill of Rights, not to deny or disparage rights retained by the people, and to reserve powers to the States respectively, or to the people. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections at the beginning of  chapter 1  of title 1 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 8 the following new item: 9. General rules of construction for laws of the United States.  . 
 5.  Implementing regulations  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall, within 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, issue for public notice and comment a proposed rule for uniform testing of English language ability of candidates for naturalization, based upon the principles that—  (1)  all citizens should be able to read and understand generally the English language text of the Declaration of Independence, the Constitution, and the laws of the United States which are made in pursuance thereof; and  (2)  any exceptions to this standard should be limited to extraordinary circumstances, such as asylum. 
 6.  Effective date  The amendments made by sections 3 and 4 shall take effect on the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
