 1.  Rail research and development center of excellence  Section 20108 of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:   (d)  Rail research and development center of excellence  (1)  Center of excellence  The Secretary shall establish a center of excellence to carry out research and development that improves the safety, efficiency and reliability of passenger and freight rail transportation.  (2)  Selection of host institution  (A)  In general  The Secretary shall select an institution of higher education, or a consortium of institutions of higher education, to host and maintain the center of excellence established under paragraph (1).  (B)  Selection criteria  In selecting a such an institution, the Secretary shall—  (i)  give preference to applicants with strong past performance related to rail research, education, and workforce development activities;  (ii)  consider the extent to which the applicant would involve public and private sector passenger and freight railroad operators; and  (iii)  consider the regional and national impacts of the applicant’s proposed research and development activities.  (3)  Use of funds  The institution of higher education may use funds provided under this subsection to carry out basic and applied research, evaluation, education, workforce development, and training efforts related to safety, efficiency, reliability, resiliency, and sustainability of commuter rail, intercity high-speed rail, and freight rail transportation, including advances in rolling stock, advanced positive train control, human factors, rail infrastructure, shared corridors, grade crossing safety, inspection technology, remote sensing, rail systems maintenance, network resiliency, operational reliability, energy efficiency, and advanced technologies.  (4)  Federal share  The Federal share of a grant under this subsection shall not exceed 50 percent of the costs of establishing and operating the center of excellence and related research activities carried out by the grant recipient.  (5)  Authorization of appropriations  (A)  Fiscal year 2022  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary $7,500,000 for fiscal year 2022 for a grant under this subsection.  (B)  Fiscal years 2023 through 2026  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2022 through 2026 for a grant under this subsection.  (C)  Availability  Amounts appropriated pursuant to this paragraph shall remain available until expended.  (6)  Institution of higher education defined In this subsection, the term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001 ). . 
