 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Health Insurance Consumer Protection Act .
 I  No More Narrow Networks  101.  Short title This title may be cited as the  No More Narrow Networks Act of 2021 .
 102.  Requiring Exchanges to establish network adequacy standards for qualified health plans  (a)  In general Section 1311(d) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( 42 U.S.C. 18031(d) ) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: (8)  Network adequacy standards  (A)  Certain Exchanges  In the case of an Exchange operated by the Secretary pursuant section 1321(c)(1) or an Exchange described in section 155.200(f) of title 42, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation), the Exchange shall require each qualified health plan offered through such Exchange to meet such quantitative network adequacy standards as the Secretary may prescribe for purposes of this subparagraph.  (B)  State Exchanges  In the case of an Exchange not described in subparagraph (A), the Exchange shall establish quantitative network adequacy standards with respect to qualified health plans offered through such Exchange and require such plans to meet such standards.  .  (b)  Effective date  The amendment made by this section shall apply with respect to plan years beginning on or after January 1, 2023.  
 II  Protecting Consumers from Unreasonable Rates  201.  Short title This title may be cited as the  Protecting Consumers from Unreasonable Rates Act .
 202.  Protection of consumers from excessive, unjustified, or unfairly discriminatory rates  (a)  Protection from excessive, unjustified, or unfairly discriminatory rates The first section 2794 of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300gg–94 ), as added by section 1003 of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( Public Law 111–148 ), is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: (e)  Protection from excessive, unjustified, or unfairly discriminatory rates  (1)  Authority of States  Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit a State from imposing requirements (including requirements relating to rate review standards and procedures and information reporting) on health insurance issuers with respect to rates that are in addition to the requirements of this section and are more protective of consumers than such requirements.  (2)  Consultation in rate review process  In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult with the National Association of Insurance Commissioners and consumer groups.  (3)  Determination of who conducts reviews for each State  The Secretary shall determine, after the date of enactment of this section and periodically thereafter, the following:  (A) In which markets in each State the State insurance commissioner or relevant State regulator shall undertake the corrective actions under  paragraph (4) , based on the Secretary’s determination that the State regulator is adequately undertaking and utilizing such actions in that market. (B) In which markets in each State the Secretary shall undertake the corrective actions under  paragraph (4) , in cooperation with the relevant State insurance commissioner or State regulator, based on the Secretary’s determination that the State is not adequately undertaking and utilizing such actions in that market. (4)  Corrective action for excessive, unjustified, or unfairly discriminatory rates  In accordance with the process established under this section, the Secretary or the relevant State insurance commissioner or State regulator shall take corrective actions to ensure that any excessive, unjustified, or unfairly discriminatory rates are corrected prior to implementation, or as soon as possible thereafter, through mechanisms such as—  (A)  denying rates;  (B)  modifying rates; or  (C)  requiring rebates to consumers.  (5)  Noncompliance  Failure to comply with any corrective action taken by the Secretary under this subsection may result in the application of civil monetary penalties under section 2723 and, if the Secretary determines appropriate, make the plan involved ineligible for classification as a qualified health plan.  .  (b)  Clarification of Regulatory Authority  Such section is further amended—  (1)  in subsection (a)—  (A) in the heading, by striking  premium  and inserting  rate ; (B) in paragraph (1), by striking  unreasonable increases in premiums  and inserting  potentially excessive, unjustified, or unfairly discriminatory rates, including premiums, ; and (C)  in paragraph (2)—  (i) by striking  an unreasonable premium increase  and inserting  a potentially excessive, unjustified, or unfairly discriminatory rate ; (ii) by striking  the increase  and inserting  the rate ; and (iii) by striking  such increases  and inserting  such rates ; and (2)  in subsection (b)—  (A) by striking  premium increases  each place it appears and inserting  rates ; and (B) in paragraph (2)(B), by striking  premium  and inserting  rate . (c)  Conforming amendments Title XXVII of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300gg  et seq.) is amended— (1) in section 2723 ( 42 U.S.C. 300gg–22 )— (A)  in subsection (a)—  (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting  , section 2794,  after  this part ; and (ii) in paragraph (2), by inserting  , section 2794,  after  this part ; and (B)  in subsection (b)—  (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting  , section 2794,  after  this part ; and (ii)  in paragraph (2)—  (I) in subparagraph (A), by inserting  , section 2794,  after  this part ; and (II) in subparagraph (C)(ii), by inserting  , section 2794,  after  this part ; and (2) in section 2761 ( 42 U.S.C. 300gg–61 )— (A)  in subsection (a)—  (i) in paragraph (1), by inserting  and section 2794  after  this part ; and (ii)  in paragraph (2)—  (I) by inserting  or section 2794  after  set forth in this part ; and (II) by inserting  and section 2794  after  the requirements of this part ; and (B)  in subsection (b)—  (i) by inserting  and section 2794  after  this part ; and (ii) by inserting  and section 2794  after  part A . (d)  Applicability to grandfathered plans Section 1251(a)(4)(A) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( Public Law 111–148 ), as added by section 2301 of the Health Care and Education Reconciliation Act of 2010 ( Public Law 111–152 ), is amended by adding at the end the following: (v)  Section 2794 (relating to reasonableness of rates with respect to health insurance coverage).  .  (e)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act, such sums as may be necessary.  (f)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act and shall be implemented with respect to health plans beginning not later than January 1, 2023. 
