 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Fort San Gerónimo Preservation Act .
 2.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Fort San Gerónimo del Boquerón The term  Fort San Gerónimo del Boquerón  (also known as  Fortín de San Gerónimo del Boquerón ) means the fort and grounds listed on the National Register of Historic Places and located near Old San Juan, Puerto Rico. (2)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior.
 3.  Establishment of affiliated area  (a)  In general  Fort San Gerónimo del Boquerón in Puerto Rico is established as an affiliated area of the National Park System.  (b)  Description of affiliated area  The affiliated area shall consist of the fort and grounds listed on the National Register of Historic Places and located near Old San Juan, Puerto Rico.  (c)  Administration  The affiliated area shall be managed in accordance with—  (1)  this Act; and  (2)  any law generally applicable to units of the National Park System.  (d)  Management entity  The Institute of Puerto Rican Culture shall be the management entity for the affiliated area.  (e)  Cooperative agreements  The Secretary may provide technical assistance and enter into cooperative agreements with the management entity for the purpose of providing financial assistance for the marketing, marking, interpretation, and preservation of the affiliated area.  (f)  Limited role of the secretary  Nothing in this section authorizes the Secretary to acquire property at the affiliated area or to assume overall financial responsibility for the operation, maintenance, or management of the affiliated area.  (g)  Management plan  (1)  In general  The Secretary, in consultation with the management entity, shall develop a management plan for the affiliated area.  (2)  Transmittal  Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are first made available to carry out this section, the Secretary shall submit the management plan developed under paragraph (1) to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate.  (h)  Private Property Protection  Nothing in this Act affects the land use rights of private property owners adjacent to Fort San Gerónimo del Boquerón.  (i)  No Buffer Zones  (1)  In general  Nothing in this Act shall be construed to create buffer zones outside of Fort San Gerónimo del Boquerón.  (2)  Activity or use outside Fort San Gerónimo del Boquerón  The fact that an activity or use can be seen, heard, or detected from within Fort San Gerónimo del Boquerón shall not preclude, limit, control, regulate, or determine the conduct or management of activities or uses outside of Fort San Gerónimo del Boquerón. 
