
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  MBS Must Be Sanctioned Act  or  MBS MBS Act .
  2.  Imposition of sanctions with respect to the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud   (a)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall impose the sanctions described in subsection (b) with respect to the Crown Prince of Saudi Arabia, Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud. 
 (b)  Sanctions described  The sanctions described in this subsection are the following:   (1)  Asset blocking The President shall exercise all of the powers granted to the President under the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ( 50 U.S.C. 1701  et seq.) (except that the requirements of section 202 of such Act ( 50 U.S.C. 1701 ) shall not apply) to the extent necessary to block and prohibit all transactions in property and interests in property of Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud if such property and interests in property are in the United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a United States person. 
 (2)  Ineligibility for visas, admission, or parole 
 (A)  Visas, admission, or parole  Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud is—   (i)  inadmissible to the United States;  
 (ii)  ineligible to receive a visa or other documentation to enter the United States; and    (iii) otherwise ineligible to be admitted or paroled into the United States or to receive any other benefit under the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1101  et seq.). 
 (B)  Current visas revoked 
 (i)  In general  The visa or other documentation issued to Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud shall be revoked regardless of when the visa or other entry documentation is or was issued.    (ii)  Immediate effect  A revocation under clause (i) shall— 
 (I)  take effect immediately; and   (II)  cancel any other valid visa or entry documentation that is in Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud’s possession.  
 (c)  Implementation; penalties 
 (1)  Implementation The President may exercise all authorities provided under sections 203 and 205 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ( 50 U.S.C. 1702  and 1704) to the extent necessary to carry out this section.  (2)  Penalties A person that violates, attempts to violate, or causes a violation of subsection (b)(1), or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out that subsection, shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 2016 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ( 50 U.S.C. 1705 ) to the same extent as a person who commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section. 
 (d)  Exceptions 
 (1)  Exception to comply with international obligations and for law enforcement activities  Sanctions under subsection (b)(2) shall not apply if admitting or paroling Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud into the United States is necessary—   (A)  to permit the United States to comply with the Agreement regarding the Headquarters of the United Nations, signed at Lake Success June 26, 1947, and entered into force November 21, 1947, between the United Nations and the United States, or other applicable international obligations; or 
 (B)  to carry out or assist law enforcement activity in the United States.    (2)  Exception related to the importation of goods   (A)  In general  The authorities and requirements to impose sanctions authorized under this section shall not include the authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods. 
 (B)  Good defined In this paragraph, the term  good  means any article, natural or manmade substance, material, supply, or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data.   (e)  Termination of sanctions  The President may terminate the application of sanctions under this section if the President determines and reports to the appropriate congressional committees not later than 15 days before the termination takes effect that— 
 (1)  credible information exists that Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud was not involved in the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, or any other instances of forced disappearance, torture, ex­tra­ju­di­cial killing, or other grave human rights violations;   (2)  Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud has been prosecuted appropriately for the murder of Jamal Khashoggi, and all other applicable instances of forced disappearance, torture, ex­tra­ju­di­cial killing, or other grave human rights violations; and 
 (3)  Mohammed bin Salman bin Abdulaziz Al Saud has credibly demonstrated a significant change in behavior, has paid an appropriate consequence for the murder of Jamal Khashoggi and any other instances of forced disappearance, torture, ex­tra­ju­di­cial killing, and other grave human rights abuses, and has credibly committed to not engage in such activities in the future.   (f)  Regulatory authority   (1)  In general  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall promulgate such regulations as are necessary for the implementation of this section. 
 (2)  Notification to Congress  Not less than 10 days before the promulgation of regulations under paragraph (1), the President shall notify and provide to the appropriate congressional committees the proposed regulations and an identification of the provisions of this section that the regulations are implementing.   (g)  Definitions  In this section: 
 (1)  Admitted; alien The terms  admitted  and  alien  have the meanings given those terms in section 101 of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1101 ).   (2)  Appropriate congressional committees The term  appropriate congressional committees  means—
 (A)  the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives; and   (B)  the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate. 
 (3)  United States person The term  United States person  means—  (A)  an individual who is a United States citizen or an alien lawfully admitted for permanent residence to the United States; 
 (B)  an entity organized under the laws of the United States or any jurisdiction within the United States, including a foreign branch of such entity; or   (C)  any person in the United States. 

