 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  COVID–19 Supply Chain Resiliency Act of 2021 .
 2.  Office of COVID–19 Supply Chain Resiliency  (a)  Establishment of office There is established in the Executive Office of the President the Office of COVID–19 Supply Chain Resiliency (in this section referred to as  the Office ). (b)  Director  (1)  In general  There shall be at the head of the Office a Director who shall be appointed by the President.   (2)  Appointment of First Director  Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall appoint an individual to serve as the Director.  (3)  Vacancy  A vacancy in the position of Director shall be filled not later than 60 days after the date on which the vacancy occurs and shall be filled in the same manner in which the original appointment was made.  (c)  Deputy Directors  (1)  Types of Deputy Directors  To assist the Director in carrying out the functions of this Act, the Director shall appoint Deputy Directors as follows:  (A)  The Deputy Director for the Medical Supply Chain.  (B)  The Deputy Director for the Food Supply Chain.  (C)  The Deputy Director for the Industrial Supply Chain.  (D)  The Deputy Director for Interagency Coordination.  (2)  Additional Deputy Directors  The Director may appoint additional Deputy Directors as the Director determines necessary.  (d)  Functions  The functions of the Office are to—  (1)  identify supply chain issues related the COVID–19 pandemic;  (2)  not later than 60 days after the establishment of the Office, establish a national strategy to address such supply chain issues, in consultation with—  (A)  the heads of other agencies of the Federal Government, including—  (i)  the Secretary of Agriculture;  (ii)  the Secretary of Commerce;  (iii)  the Secretary of Defense;  (iv)  the Secretary of Health and Human Services;  (v)  the Secretary of Homeland Security;   (vi)  the Secretary of Labor;   (vii)  the Secretary of Transportation;   (viii)  the Secretary of the Treasury;   (ix)  the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency;   (x)  the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency;  (xi)  the Federal Trade Commission;   (xii)  the Administrator of the Small Business Administration; and  (xiii)  the United States Trade Representative;  (B)  persons or private sector entities that transport products by air, water, rail, and road;  (C)  manufacturers of durable consumer products;  (D)  producers of agricultural products;  (E)  manufacturers and distributors of drugs, devices, and other medical products and supplies; and  (F)  manufacturers, producers, and distributors of other supplies critical to national security and the COVID–19 pandemic;  (3)  serve as a central point of contact for Federal and non-Federal entities seeking technical assistance with respect to supply chain issues related to the COVID–19 pandemic;   (4)  provide technical assistance to Federal and non-Federal entities seeking technical assistance with respect to supply chain issues related to the COVID–19 pandemic; and   (5)  develop legislative recommendations to strengthen critical supply chains for pandemics, including the COVID–19 pandemic.  (e)  Report to Congress  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit a report to Congress on—  (1)  any supply chain issues identified under paragraph (1) of subsection (d);   (2)  the national strategy established under such subsection; and  (3)  any legislative recommendation developed under such subsection.  (f)  Termination The Office established under this section shall terminate on the date that is 18 months after the date on which the Public Health Emergency declared by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 319 of the Public Health Services Act ( 42 U.S.C. 247 ) as a result of COVID–19 pandemic, and any renewal thereof, terminates. 
