 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Stamp Out Lyme Disease Act .
 2.  Findings and purpose  (a)  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1)  The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) estimate that 476,000 Lyme disease cases are diagnosed and treated in the United States annually.  (2)  The CDC reports that Lyme disease is difficult to diagnose due to its diverse manifestations and a lack of reliable testing options.  (3)  The National Institutes of Health (NIH) reports that a significant number of later-stage or post-treatment Lyme disease patients are not cured.  (4)  The Tick-Borne Disease Working Group reports that 10 to 20 percent of Lyme disease patients will suffer from persistent symptoms which can be chronic and disabling.  (5)  According to the Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, Lyme disease costs the United States healthcare system up to $1,300,000,000 per year.  (b)  Purpose To afford a convenient way for members of the public to contribute to funding for Lyme disease and related tick-borne illness research within the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, the United States Postal Service shall issue a semipostal stamp (hereinafter in this Act referred to as the  Lyme Disease Research Semipostal Stamp ) in accordance with this section.
 3.  Lyme disease research semipostal stamp  (a)  Terms and conditions  The issuance and sale of the Lyme Disease Research Semipostal Stamp shall be governed by the provisions of section 416 of title 39, United States Code, and regulations issued under such section.  (b)  Disposition of proceeds  (1)  In general  All amounts becoming available from the sale of the Lyme Disease Research Semipostal Stamp (as determined under section 416(d) of such title 39) shall be transferred to the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases, for the purpose described in subsection (a), through payments which shall be made at least twice a year.  (2)  Proceeds not to be offset  In accordance with section 416(d)(4) of such title 39, amounts becoming available from the sale of the Lyme Disease Research Semipostal Stamp (as so determined) shall not be taken into account in any decision relating to the level of appropriations or other Federal funding to be furnished in any year to the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.  (c)  Duration  The Lyme Disease Research Semipostal Stamp shall be made available to the public for a period of at least 6 years, beginning no later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.  (d)  Definition For purposes of this Act, the term  semipostal stamp  refers to a stamp described in section 416(a)(1) of title 39, United States Code.
