 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Fair and Equal Housing Act of 2021 .
 2.  Housing  (a)  Fair Housing Act The Fair Housing Act ( 42 U.S.C. 3601 et seq. ) is amended— (1)  in section 802, by adding at the end the following:  (p)  Race ,  color ,  religion ,  sex  (including sexual orientation and gender identity),  handicap ,  familial status , or  national origin , used with respect to an individual, includes— (1)  the race, color, religion, sex (including sexual orientation and gender identity), handicap, familial status, or national origin, respectively, of another person with whom the individual is associated or has been associated; and  (2)  a perception or belief, even if inaccurate, concerning the race, color, religion, sex (including sexual orientation and gender identity), handicap, familial status, or national origin, respectively, of the individual.  (q)  Gender identity  means the gender-related identity, appearance, or mannerisms or other gender-related characteristics of an individual, without regard to the individual’s designated sex at birth. (r)  Sexual orientation  means homosexuality, heterosexuality, or bisexuality. ;  (2) in section 804, by inserting  (including sexual orientation and gender identity)  after  sex  each place that term appears; (3) in section 805, by inserting  (including sexual orientation and gender identity)  after  sex  each place that term appears; (4) in section 806, by inserting  (including sexual orientation and gender identity)  after  sex  each place that term appears; and (5) in section 808(e)(6), by inserting  (including sexual orientation and gender identity)  after  sex . (b)  Prevention of intimidation in fair housing cases Section 901 of the Civil Rights Act of 1968 ( 42 U.S.C. 3631 ) is amended by inserting  (including sexual orientation (as such term is defined in section 802 of this Act) and gender identity (as such term is defined in section 802 of this Act))  after  sex  each place that term appears.
