 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Advancing Connectivity during the Coronavirus to Ensure Support for Seniors Act  or the  ACCESS Act .
 I  Supplemental appropriations  101.  Supplemental appropriations  The following sums are hereby appropriated, out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, for the fiscal year ending September 30, 2021, and for other purposes, namely: 
 Department of Health and Human Services  Health resources and services administration  rural health  For an additional amount for the Telehealth Resource Center of the Federal Office of Rural Health Policy of the Office for the Advancement of Telehealth, to provide assistance with respect to technical, legal, regulatory service delivery or other related barriers to the development of telehealth technologies for skilled nursing facilities (as defined in section 1819 of the Social Security Act) and nursing facilities (as defined in section 1919 of such Act), $50,000,000 to remain available through September 30, 2022.   II  Increased Access to Telehealth Services and Other Technologies  201.  Definitions  In this title:  (1)  COVID–19 public health emergency period The term  COVID–19 public health emergency period  means the portion of the emergency period defined in paragraph (1)(B) of section 1135(g) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1320b–5(g) ) beginning on or after the date of the enactment of this Act. (2)  Nursing facility The term  nursing facility  has the meaning given that term in section 1919(a) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1396r(a) ). (3)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Health and Human Services.  (4)  Skilled nursing facility The term  skilled nursing facility  has the meaning given that term in section 1819(a) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1395i–3(a) ).  (5)  State The term  State  has the meaning given such term for purposes of title XIX of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1396  et seq.). 
 202.  Authority to award grants to nursing facilities for supporting virtual visits during the COVID–19 public health emergency  (a)  In general  The Secretary shall award grants directly to skilled nursing facilities and nursing facilities in accordance with this section to support virtual visits by family members and other individuals for residents of such facilities during the COVID–19 public health emergency period.  (b)  Coordination  The Secretary shall coordinate with the Federal Communications Commission to ensure that all facilities awarded a grant under this section are able to carry out the purposes described in subsection (d), including through the provision of telecommunications and broadband services necessary to support virtual visits described in subsection (a).  (c)  Application requirements  A facility seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such form and manner, and containing such information as the Secretary shall require.   (d)  Use of funds  A facility awarded a grant under this section may only use the funds for expenditures attributable to obtaining and using—  (1)  technologies to support virtual visits described in subsection (a); and  (2)  any other items or services (including staffing costs) necessary to carry out such visits.  (e)  Limitations  (1)  Termination of authority  The Secretary shall not award any grants under this section after the end of the COVID–19 public health emergency period.  (2)  Supplement, not supplant  Federal funds paid to a skilled nursing facility or a nursing facility pursuant to this section must be used to supplement, but not supplant, any other Federal, State, or local funds available to the facility that may be used for a purpose specified in subsection (d).  (f)  Guidance  Not later than 15 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall, after consultation with appropriate skilled nursing facility and nursing home resident advocate stakeholders, issue guidance on steps facilities awarded grants under this section shall take to ensure residents of such facilities have access to virtual visitation during the COVID–19 public health emergency period and how such access shall be facilitated by such facilities. Such guidance shall include options for how such facilities will ensure notification of residents and resident representatives of such virtual visitation access and facilitation, address how adequate support will be provided to residents to facilitate virtual visitation, address how facilities will ensure or enable installation and access to a device purchased for the use or benefit of individual or multiple facility residents, and address operational issues and avoid unnecessary barriers to timely deployment of virtual visitation.  (g)  Report  Not later than 30 days after the end of the COVID–19 public health emergency period, the Secretary shall submit a report to Congress on the grants awarded under this section.  (h)  Appropriation  There are appropriated to the Secretary for fiscal year 2021, from any funds in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, such sums as are necessary to carry out this section, to remain available through the last day of the month following the month in which the COVID–19 public health emergency period ends. 
 III  Miscellaneous  301.  Emergency designation  (a)  In general The amounts provided by this Act are designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4(g) of the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010 ( 2 U.S.C. 933(g) ). (b)  Designation in Senate  In the Senate, this Act is designated as an emergency requirement pursuant to section 4112(a) of H. Con. Res. 71 (115th Congress), the concurrent resolution on the budget for fiscal year 2018.  
