
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  ESP Family Leave Act .
  2.  Eligibility for education support professionals Section 101(2) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( 29 U.S.C. 2611(2) ) is amended by adding at the end the following:

 (F)  Education support professionals 
 (i)  Determination  For purposes of determining whether an employee who is an education support professional meets the hours of service requirement specified in subparagraph (A)(ii), the employee will be considered to meet the requirement if the employee has worked a number of hours equal to not less than 60 percent of the applicable total monthly hours expected for the employee’s job description and duties, as assigned for the previous school year.   (ii)  File  Each employer of an education support professional shall maintain on file with the Secretary (in accordance with such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe) information specifying the total monthly hours expected for the employee’s job description and duties for each school year. 
 (iii)  Definitions 
 (I)  Education support professional In this subparagraph, the term  education support professional  means an employee within a public school or public institution of higher education, which may include—  (aa)  paraeducators that provide instructional and non-instructional support; 
 (bb)  secretarial, clerical, and administrative support staff;   (cc)  custodians and maintenance service workers that provide building and grounds maintenance and repair; 
 (dd)  skilled trade workers that provide services in schools, such as electricians, carpenters, and workers who operate machinery;   (ee)  workers who provide food service, including preparation and serving of food; 
 (ff)  workers who provide school transportation and delivery services;   (gg)  computer, audiovisual, and language technical support staff; 
 (hh)  security staff;   (ii)  nursing, health, and therapy support staff, who may also provide community, family, parent and welfare services; and 
 (jj)  other staff that may serve public education students.   (II)  Public school In this subparagraph, the term  public school  means a school that is maintained at public expense for the education of the children of a community or district and that constitutes a part of a system of free public education commonly including primary and secondary schools, including special education cooperatives, alternative schools, and other similar facilities.
 (III)  Public institution of higher education In this subparagraph the term  public institution of higher education  means an institution of higher education, as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001 ), that is funded, at least partly, by State taxpayers. . 
  3.  Entitlement to leave Section 102(a) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( 29 U.S.C. 2612(a) ) is amended by adding at the end the following:

 (6)  Calculation of leave for education support professionals  The Secretary may provide a method for calculating the leave described in paragraph (1) with respect to employees described in section 101(2)(F).  . 
 