 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Public Service Integrity Act .
 2.  Restrictions on lobbying by former Members of Congress  (a)  5-Year post-Employment ban on all lobbying  (1)  Former Senators Subparagraph (A) of section 207(e)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by striking  within 2 years after that person leaves office  and inserting  within 5 years after that person leaves office . (2)  Former Members of the House of Representatives  Paragraph (1) of section 207(e) of such title is amended by striking subparagraph (B) and inserting the following:  (B)  Members of the House of Representatives  Any person who is a Member of the House of Representatives and who, within 5 years after that person leaves office, knowingly makes, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before any Member, officer, or employee of either House of Congress and any employee of any other legislative office of the Congress, on behalf of any other person (except the United States) in connection with any matter on which such former Member seeks action by a Member, officer, or employee of either House of Congress, in his or her official capacity, shall be punished as provided in section 216 of this title.  (C)  Officers of the House of Representatives  Any person who is an elected officer of the House of Representatives and who, within 1 year after that person leaves office, knowingly makes, with the intent to influence, any communication to or appearance before any Member, officer, or employee of the House of Representatives, on behalf of any other person (except the United States) in connection with any matter on which such former elected officer seeks action by a Member, officer, or employee of either House of Congress, in his or her official capacity, shall be punished as provided in section 216 of this title.  .  (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to any individual who, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, leaves an office to which section 207(e)(1) of title 18, United States Code, applies. 
 3.  Restrictions on lobbying by former officers and employees of Congress  (a)  2-Year post-Employment ban on all lobbying  (1)  Former officers of the House of Representatives Subparagraph (C) of section 207(e)(1) of title 18, United States Code, as amended by section 2(a)(2), is amended by striking  within 1 year  and inserting  within 2 years . (2)  Former officers and staff of the Senate Paragraph (2) of section 207(e) of such title is amended by striking  within 1 year  and inserting  within 2 years . (3)  Former personal staff of Members of the House of Representatives Paragraph (3)(A) of section 207(e) of such title is amended by striking  within 1 year  and inserting  within 2 years . (4)  Former committee staff of House of Representatives Paragraph (4) of section 207(e) of such title is amended by striking  within 1 year  and inserting  within 2 years . (5)  Former leadership staff of House of Representatives Paragraph (5)(A) of section 207(e) of such title is amended by striking  within 1 year  and inserting  within 2 years . (6)  Former staff of other legislative offices of Congress Paragraph (6)(A) of section 207(e) of such title is amended by striking  within 1 year  and inserting  within 2 years . (b)  Lowering income threshold for application of restrictions Subparagraph (A) of section 207(e)(7) of such title is amended by striking  75 percent of the rate of basic pay  and inserting  50 percent of the rate of basic pay . (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to any individual who, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, leaves a position to which section 207(e) of title 18, United States Code, applies. 
