 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Forbidding Repressive Executive Efforts and Denouncing Overreaching Mandates Act  or the  FREEDOM Act .
 2.  Sense of Congress  Congress finds the following:  (1)  President Biden’s recent Executive order on COVID–19 vaccine mandates is both unconstitutional and a Federal overreach.  (2)  The decision to be vaccinated should only be made and known between an individual and his or her doctor.  (3)  A Federal COVID–19 vaccine mandate is an infringement upon an individual’s freedom, rights, and liberty.  (4)  A Federal COVID–19 vaccine mandate does not properly consider the strength of natural immunity.  (5)  Individuals, businesses, localities, and States should have the personal choice whether or not to be vaccinated against COVID–19. 
 3.  Report on Federal employee COVID–19 vaccination mandate  (a)  In general  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the head of each Executive agency shall submit to Congress—  (1)  a report on the effects of a requirement that the employees of such Executive agency be vaccinated against the COVID–19 virus, including—  (A)  the estimated number of employees of such Executive agency—  (i)  who do not intend to get vaccinated; and  (ii)  who would leave such Executive agency due to such a requirement;  (B)  the effects on the workforce of such Executive agency and on the ability of such Executive agency to carry out the mission of such Executive agency resulting from such employees leaving due to such a requirement;  (C)  any plans of such Executive agency to mitigate any loss of institutional knowledge resulting from such employees leaving due to such a requirement; and  (D)  estimates of how long such Executive agency will take to fill the positions left vacant by such employees leaving due to such a requirement and the costs of filling such positions; and  (2)  a certification whether such a requirement will adversely affect the ability of such Executive agency to carry out the mission of such Executive agency.  (b)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Employee The term  employee  has the meaning given such term in section 2105 of title 5, United States Code. (2)  Executive agency The term  Executive agency  has the meaning given such term in section 105 of title 5, United States Code.
