 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Prohibition of Medicaid Funding for Conversion Therapy Act .
 2.  Prohibition on Medicaid payments for conversion therapy  (a)  In general Section 1902 of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1396a ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (a)—  (A) in paragraph (86), by striking  and  at the end; (B) in paragraph (87), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and (C)  by inserting after paragraph (87) the following new paragraph:  (88)  provide that, beginning with the first day of the first quarter that begins on or after the date of enactment of this paragraph, no payment may be made under the plan with respect to conversion therapy (as defined in subsection (tt)) furnished to an individual enrolled under the plan (or a waiver of such plan).  ; and  (2)  by adding at the end the following new subsection:  (tt)  Conversion therapy; Gender identity; Person; Sexual orientation  For purposes of subsection (a)(88) and this subsection:  (1)  Conversion therapy The term  conversion therapy — (A)  means any practice or treatment by any person that seeks to change another individual’s sexual orientation or gender identity, including efforts to change behaviors or gender expressions, or to eliminate or reduce sexual or romantic attractions or feelings toward individuals of the same gender, if such person receives monetary compensation in exchange for any such practice or treatment; and  (B)  does not include any practice or treatment, which does not seek to change sexual orientation or gender identity, that—  (i)  provides assistance to an individual undergoing a gender transition; or  (ii)  provides acceptance, support, and understanding of a client or facilitation of a client’s coping, social support, and identity exploration and development, including sexual orientation-neutral interventions to prevent or address unlawful conduct or unsafe sexual practices.  (2)  Gender identity The term  gender identity  means the gender-related identity, appearance, mannerisms, or other gender-related characteristics of an individual, regardless of the individual’s designated sex at birth. (3)  Person The term  person  means any individual, partnership, corporation, cooperative, association, or any other entity. (4)  Sexual orientation The term  sexual orientation  means homosexuality, heterosexuality, or bisexuality. .  (b)  Conforming amendment Section 1903(i) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1396b(i) ) is amended— (1) in paragraph (26), by striking  or  at the end; (2) in paragraph (27), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; or ; and (3)  by inserting after paragraph (27) the following new paragraph:  (28)  with respect to any amount expended for conversion therapy (as defined in section 1902(tt)) on or after the date described in section 1902(a)(88).  . 
