 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protecting Education Privacy Act .
 2.  Amendments to FERPA Section 444(b) of the General Education Provisions Act ( 20 U.S.C. 1232g(b) ) (commonly known as the  Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 ) is amended— (1) in paragraph (1)(C)(i)(III), by inserting  or local  after  State ; (2)  in paragraph (3)—  (A) by striking  (A)  and inserting  (i) ; (B) by striking  (B)  and inserting  (ii) ; (C) by striking  (C)  and inserting  (iii) ; (D) by striking  (3) Nothing  and inserting the following:  (3)(A) Nothing ; (E) by inserting  or local  after  State ; (F) by striking  programs:  and inserting  programs. ; (G) by striking  Provided , That except and inserting the following: (B)  Except  ;   (H) by striking  such officials  and inserting  the officials described in items (i) through (iii) of subparagraph (A) ; and (I)  by adding at the end the following:  (C)  (i) For purposes of this section, the term  authorized representative  means an individual who— (I)  is designated as an authorized representative by an official described in item (i), (ii), or (iii) of subparagraph (A); and  (II)  is under the direct control, as a contractor or employee, of such official.  (ii)  An authorized representative shall not release any personally identifiable information contained in education records collected while serving as an authorized representative to any individual, agency, or organization, other than the official under whom the authorized representative is under the direct control.  ; and  (3)  by adding at the end the following new paragraph:  (8)  (A)  Nothing in this section may be construed to authorize the personally identifiable information contained in education records of students to be shared, without the written consent of their parents, for the development of commercial products or services.  (B) In this section, the term  commercial products or services  does not include official school pictures, class rings, yearbooks, or other traditional school-sanctioned commemorative products, events, or activities. . 
 3.  FERPA regulations  (a)  Repeals The definitions of the terms  authorized representative ,  early childhood education program , and  education program  in section 99.3 of title 34, Code of Federal Regulations, are repealed and shall have no legal effect. (b)  Certain regulations prohibited The Secretary of Education shall not promulgate or enforce any regulation or rule that defines  early childhood education program  or  education program  for any purpose under section 444 of the General Education Provisions Act ( 20 U.S.C. 1232g ) (commonly known as the  Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 ) on or after the date of enactment of this Act.
