 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Department of Veterans Affairs Construction Management Improvement Act of 2021 .
 2.  Reports on construction procurement  (a)  Report on operational and policy reforms  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall submit to the Committees on Veterans Affairs’ of the Senate and House of Representatives a report on the implementation of operational and policy reforms in construction procurement. Such report shall include each of the following:  (1)  A listing and description of each such operational and policy reform relating to minor construction, non-recurring maintenance, leasing, major construction, or super construction.  (2)  With respect to minor construction and non-recurring maintenance projects—  (A)  a comparison of procurement lead times and construction completion times for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2021; and  (B)  if the Secretary determines that procurement lead times and construction completion times were successively reduced from fiscal year 2016 through fiscal year 2021, a discussion of how such reduction was accomplished.  (3)  With respect to major and minor leases—  (A)  a comparison of procurement lead times and lease activation completion times for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2021;  (B)  if the Secretary determines that procurement lead times and lease activation completion times were successively reduced from fiscal year 2016 through fiscal year 2021, a discussion of how such reduction was accomplished; and  (C)  a discussion of which leases utilized standardized designs, whether and why any designs were customized, and justifications for instances in which standardized designs were not utilized.  (4)  With respect to major construction—  (A)  a comparison of procurement lead times and construction completion times for each of fiscal years 2016 through 2021;  (B)  if the Secretary determines that procurement lead times and construction completion times were successively reduced from fiscal year 2016 through fiscal year 2021, a discussion of how such reduction was accomplished; and  (C)  a comparison of actual costs to initial cost estimates for each project completed during each of fiscal years 2019 through 2021.  (b)  Report on cost and schedule variances  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, in consultation with the Commanding General of the Army Corps of Engineers, shall submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report that includes, with respect to each super construction project included in a report under section 8120 of title 38, United States Code, during any of fiscal years 2017, 2018, 2019, 2020, or 2021—  (1)  a comparison of the actual cost and schedule variances and the planned cost and schedule for each such project; and  (2)  an explanation as to why actual cost and schedule variances have or have not improved.  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  procurement lead times  means the number of days between origination of a requirement and award of a contract or lease. (2) The term  construction completion times  means the number of days between the provision of notice to proceed and beneficial occupancy. (3) The term  lease activation completion times  means the number of days between origination of a requirement for a leased facility and activation of such facility.
