
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  COVID–19 Fraud Prevention Act .
  2.  Consumer and Investor Fraud Working Group   (a)  Establishment Not later than the end of the 30-day period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and the Securities and Exchange Commission shall, jointly, establish a working group to be known as the  Consumer and Investor Fraud Working Group  (the  Working Group ).
 (b)  Duties  The Working Group shall facilitate collaboration between the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and the Securities and Exchange Commission on—   (1)  providing resources to consumers and investors to avoid fraud during the COVID–19 pandemic; 
 (2)  providing resources, including information on the availability of legal aid resources, to consumers and investors who have been adversely impacted by such fraud; and   (3)  such other topics as the Working Group determines appropriate. 
 (c)  Coordination with other agencies  In carrying out the duties described under subsection (b), the Working Group shall coordinate and collaborate with other Federal and State government agencies, as appropriate.   (d)  Quarterly report  The Working Group shall issue a quarterly report to the Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate on the progress of the Working Group and summarizing— 
 (1)  the resources made publicly available to consumers by the Working Group;   (2)  any public enforcement action taken jointly or individually by any member of the Working Group; 
 (3)  the number and description of consumer complaints received by the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection and the Securities and Exchange Commission regarding fraud related to the COVID–19 pandemic; and   (4)  any other actions of the Working Group. 
 (e)  Sunset  This section shall cease to have any force or effect on and after December 31, 2022. 
  3.  Determination of budgetary effects The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled  Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation  for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage. 

