 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Stop the Spread of Invasive Mussels Act of 2021 .
 2.  Bureau of Reclamation assistance  (a)  Definitions  In this section—  (1) the term  aquatic invasive species  has the meaning given that term  aquatic nuisance species  in section 1003 of the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 ( 16 U.S.C. 4702 ); (2) the term  reclamation project  has the meaning given that term in section 2803(3) of the Reclamation Projects Authorization and Adjustment Act of 1992 (16 U.S.C.460 l -32(3)); (3) the term  reclamation State  has the meaning given that term in section 4014 of the Water Infrastructure Improvements for the Nation Act ( 43 U.S.C. 390b  note); (4) the term  recreational vessel  has the meaning given that term in section 502(25) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1362(25) ); and (5) the term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Commissioner of Reclamation. (b)  Watercraft inspection in reclamation states  The Secretary shall provide financial assistance to a reclamation State to prevent the spread of aquatic invasive species into, within, and out of reclamation projects, including financial assistance to purchase, establish, operate, or maintain a watercraft inspection and decontamination station, if the Secretary determines that the financial assistance is—  (1)  necessary; and  (2)  in the interests of the United States.  (c)  Cost share  The non-Federal share of the cost of purchasing, establishing, operating, and maintaining a watercraft inspection and decontamination station (including a non-Federal watercraft inspection and decontamination station) under subsection (b), including personnel costs, shall be—  (1)  25 percent; and  (2)  provided by the reclamation State, or a unit of local government in the reclamation State, in which the watercraft inspection and decontamination station or other project is located.  (d)  Priority  In providing financial assistance to a reclamation State under subsection (b), the Secretary shall give priority to—  (1)  a watercraft inspection and decontamination station that has the highest likelihood of preventing the spread of aquatic invasive species at reservoirs of reclamation projects; and  (2)  a project that—  (A)  would prevent the spread of an aquatic invasive species to waters under the jurisdiction of the Secretary, including an irrigation, reclamation, or other water project;  (B)  aligns with—  (i)  priorities of the reclamation State; and  (ii) the document submitted to the Aquatic Nuisance Species Task Force entitled  Quagga-Zebra Mussel Action Plan for Western U.S. Waters  and dated September 29, 2020, and any subsequent updates to such document submitted to the Task Force; and (C) includes a plan for minimizing disruptions to boating access for non-contaminated recreational vessels to the greatest extent practicable, which may include recommendations provided by the Aquatic Nuisance Species Task Force established under section 1201(b) of the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 ( 16 U.S.C. 4721(b) ). (e)  Coordination  In carrying out this section, the Secretary shall consult and coordinate with—  (1)  each of the reclamation States;  (2)  affected federally recognized Indian Tribes; and  (3)  the heads of appropriate Federal agencies.  (f)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $25,000,000 for fiscal year 2022 and each fiscal year thereafter. 
 3.  Recreational vessel inspection and decontamination authority  (a)  Recreational vessel defined Section 1003 of the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 ( 16 U.S.C. 4702 ) is amended— (1)  by inserting after paragraph (12) the following:  (13)  State  means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, American Samoa, Guam, Puerto Rico, the Northern Mariana Islands, and the Virgin Islands of the United States. ;  (2) in paragraph (16), by striking  and  at the end; (3) in paragraph (17), by striking the period and inserting  ; and ;  (4)  by redesignating paragraphs (13) through (17) as paragraphs (14) through (18), respectively; and  (5)  by adding at the end the following:  (19)  recreational vessel  has the meaning given that term in section 502(25) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1362(25) ). .  (b)  Observers Section 1201 of the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 ( 16 U.S.C. 4721 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (g)  Observers  The chairpersons designated under subsection (d) may invite representatives of nongovernmental entities to participate as observers of the Task Force.  .  (c)  Aquatic Nuisance Species Task Force Section 1201(b) of the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 ( 16 U.S.C. 4721(b) ) is amended— (1) in paragraph (6), by striking  and  at the end; (2)  by redesignating paragraph (7) as paragraph (10); and  (3)  by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:  (7)  the Director of the National Park Service;  (8)  the Director of the Bureau of Land Management;  (9)  the Commissioner of Reclamation; and  .  (d)  Aquatic nuisance species program Section 1202 of the Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 ( 16 U.S.C. 4722 ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (b)—  (A) in paragraph (5), by striking  and  at the end; (B) in paragraph (6), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and (C)  by adding at the end the following:  (7) not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of the  Stop the Spread of Invasive Mussels Act of 2021 , recommend legislative, programmatic, or regulatory changes to eliminate remaining gaps in authorities between members of the Task Force to effectively manage and control the movement of aquatic nuisance species into, within, or out of waters of the United States. ;  (2)  in subsection (c), by adding at the end the following:  (3)  Mandatory inspection and decontamination  To limit the movement of aquatic nuisance species into, within, or out of waters of the United States, each member of the Task Force may, as appropriate and in coordination with States—  (A)  conduct mandatory inspections and decontamination of recreational vessels;  (B)  if necessary, impound, quarantine, or otherwise prevent entry of a recreational vessel; and  (C)  partner with State and local governmental agencies to conduct inspections and decontaminations under this paragraph and accept any such inspections and decontamination by States and local government agencies for the purposes of allowing entry by recreational vessels to water regulated by such member of the Task Force.  (4)  Exceptions  (A)  Nothing in paragraph (3) shall be construed to—  (i)  limit the authority of the Commandant of the Coast Guard to regulate vessels provided under any other provision of law;  (ii)  limit the authority, jurisdiction, or responsibilities of a State to manage, control, or regulate fish and wildlife under the laws and regulations of the State;  (iii)  authorize members of the Task Force to control or regulate within a State the fishing or hunting of fish and wildlife; or  (iv)  authorize State and local governmental agencies to impound or quarantine vessels using Federal authority.  (B)  Authorities granted in paragraph (3) shall not apply at locations where—  (i) inspection or decontamination activities would duplicate efforts by the Coast Guard under the Vessel Incidental Discharge Act of 2018 (Title IX of  Public Law 115–282 ; 132 Stat. 4322); (ii) inspection or decontamination activities would duplicate efforts by the Coast Guard under section 312(o) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1322(o) ); (iii)  inspection or decontamination activities are conducted by the Coast Guard under any other provision of law; or  (iv)  the Coast Guard is exercising its authority to direct vessel traffic pursuant to section 70002 or section 70021 of title 46, United States Code.  ; and  (3)  in subsection (e)—  (A)  in paragraph (1)—  (i) in the first sentence, by inserting  , economy, infrastructure,  after  environment ; and (ii) in the second sentence, by inserting  (including through the use of recreational vessel inspection and decontamination stations)  after  aquatic nuisance species ; (B) in paragraph (2), in the second sentence, by inserting  infrastructure, and the  after  ecosystems, ; and (C)  by adding at the end the following:  (4)  Technical assistance and recommendations  The Task Force may provide technical assistance and recommendations for best practices to an agency or entity engaged in inspections or decontaminations under subsection (c) or receiving funds under section 2 of the Stop the Spread of Invasive Mussels Act of 2021 for the purpose of—  (A)  effectively managing and controlling the movement of aquatic nuisance species into, within, or out of waters of the United States; and  (B)  inspecting recreational vessels in a manner that minimizes disruptions to public access for boating and recreation in non-contaminated vessels.  (5)  Coordination  In carrying out paragraph (4), including the development of recommendations, the Task Force may coordinate with—  (A)  State fish and wildlife management agencies;  (B)  other State agencies that manage fishery resources of the State, sustain fishery habitat, or manage and remove aquatic nuisance species; and  (C)  relevant nongovernmental entities.  . 
 4.  Technical corrections and conforming amendments The Nonindigenous Aquatic Nuisance Prevention and Control Act of 1990 ( 16 U.S.C. 4701 et seq. ) is further amended— (1) in section 1002(b)(2), by inserting a comma after  funded ; (2) in section 1003, in paragraph (7), by striking  Canandian  and inserting  Canadian ; (3)  in section 1203(a)—  (A) in paragraph (1)(F), by inserting  and  after  research, ; and (B) in paragraph (3), by striking  encourage  and inserting  encouraged ; (4) in section 1204(b)(4), in the paragraph heading, by striking  Adminisrative  and inserting  Administrative ; (5) in section 1209, by striking  subsection (a)  and inserting  section 1202(a) ; and (6) in section 1301(a)(2), by striking  4712(a)(2  and inserting  4712(a)(2) .
