 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Rural Education Investment Act .
 2.  Partnership grants for the establishment of rural teaching residency programs  (a)  Definition Section 200 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1021 ) is amended— (1)  by redesignating paragraphs (16) through (23) as paragraphs (17) through (24), respectively; and  (2)  by inserting after paragraph (15) the following new paragraph:  (16)  Local educational agency located in a rural area The term  local educational agency located in a rural area  means a local educational agency that meets the eligibility requirements for funding under— (A)  the Small, Rural School Achievement Program under section 5211(b) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; or  (B)  the Rural and Low-Income School Program under section 5221(b) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.  .  (b)  Grant awards Section 202(e) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1022a(e) ) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: (3)  Selection of grantees  (A)  Percentage of rural local educational agencies  Before the start of each award year, the Secretary shall determine, based on the number of students in kindergarten through grade 12 who are served by all local educational agencies, the percentage of students in kindergarten through grade 12 who are served by local educational agencies located in rural areas.  (B)  Grant reservation for rural local educational agencies Beginning with the first award year that begins after the date of enactment of the  Rural Education Investment Act , the Secretary shall ensure that, of the total amount awarded for grants under this subsection for an award year, the percentage of such total amount that is awarded to eligible partnerships that are in partnership with a local educational agency located in a rural area shall not be less than the percentage determined by the Secretary under  subparagraph (A)  for such award year. . 
