 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Climate Smart Ports Act .
 2.  Climate smart ports grant program  (a)  Establishment  Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall establish a program to award grants to eligible entities to purchase, and as applicable install, zero emissions port equipment and technology.  (b)  Use of grants  (1)  In general  An eligible entity may use a grant awarded under this section to purchase, and as applicable install, zero emissions port equipment and technology.  (2)  Prohibited use  (A)  In general  An eligible entity may not use a grant awarded under this section to purchase or install fully automated cargo handling equipment or terminal infrastructure that is designed for fully automated cargo handling equipment.  (B)  Human-operated zero emissions port equipment and technology  Nothing in subparagraph (A) prohibits an eligible entity from using a grant awarded under this section to purchase human-operated zero emissions port equipment and technology or infrastructure that supports such human-operated zero emissions port equipment and technology.  (3)  Cost share  (A)  In general  Except as provided in subparagraph (B), an eligible entity may not use a grant awarded under this section to cover more than 70 percent of the cost of purchasing, and as applicable installing, zero emissions port equipment and technology.  (B)  Certain grants  With respect to a grant in an amount equal to or greater than $3,000,000, an eligible entity may use such grant to cover not more than 85 percent of the cost of purchasing and installing zero emissions port equipment and technology if such eligible entity certifies to the Administrator that—  (i)  such grant will be used, at least in part, to employ laborers or mechanics to install zero emissions port equipment and technology; and  (ii)  such eligible entity is a party to a project labor agreement or requires that each subgrantee of such eligible entity, and any subgrantee thereof at any tier, that performs such installation participate in a project labor agreement.  (4)  Project labor  An eligible entity that uses a grant awarded under this section to install zero emissions port equipment and technology shall ensure, to the greatest extent practicable, that any subgrantee of such eligible entity, and any subgrantee thereof, that carries out such installation employs at least 40 percent of the laborers or mechanics for such installation individuals who—  (A)  are domiciled—  (i)  if the applicable installation area is a major urban area, not further than 15 miles from such installation area; and  (ii)  if the applicable installation area is not a major urban area, not further than 50 miles from such installation area;  (B)  are displaced and unemployed energy workers;  (C)  are members of the Armed Forces serving on active duty, separated from active duty, or retired from active duty;  (D)  have been incarcerated or served time in a juvenile or adult detention or correctional facility, or been placed on probation, community supervision, or in a diversion scheme;  (E)  have a disability;  (F)  are homeless;  (G)  are receiving public assistance;  (H)  lack a general education diploma or high school diploma;  (I)  are emancipated from the foster care system; or  (J)  are registered apprentices with fewer than 15 percent of the required graduating apprentice hours in a program.  (c)  Wages  (1)  In general All laborers and mechanics employed by a subgrantee of an eligible entity, and any subgrantee thereof at any tier, to perform construction, alteration, installation, or repair work that is assisted, in whole or in part, by a grant awarded under this section shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar construction, alteration, installation, or repair work in the locality as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with subchapter IV of  chapter 31  of title 40, United States Code. (2)  Labor standards  With respect to the labor standards in this subsection, the Secretary of Labor shall have the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267; 5 U.S.C. App.) and section 3145 of title 40, United States Code.  (d)  Application  (1)  In general  To be eligible to be awarded a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Administrator may require.  (2)  Priority  The Administrator shall prioritize awarding grants under this section to eligible entities based on the following:  (A)  The degree to which the proposed use of the grant will—  (i)  reduce greenhouse gas emissions;  (ii)  reduce emissions of any criteria pollutant and precursor thereof;  (iii)  reduce hazardous air pollutant emissions; and  (iv)  reduce public health disparities in communities that receive a disproportionate quantity of air pollution from a port.  (B)  The amount of matching, non-Federal funds expected to be used by an applicant to purchase, and as applicable install, zero emissions port equipment and technology.  (C)  Whether the applicant will use such grant to purchase, and as applicable install, zero emissions port equipment and technology that is produced in the United States.  (D)  As applicable, whether the applicant will meet the utilization requirements for registered apprentices established by the Secretary of Labor or a State Apprenticeship Agency.  (E)  As applicable, whether the applicant will recruit and retain skilled workers through a State-approved joint labor management apprenticeship program.  (e)  Outreach  (1)  In general Not later than 90 days after funds are made available to carry out this section, the Administrator shall develop and carry out an educational outreach program to promote and explain the grant program established under subsection (a) to prospective grant recipients. (2)  Program components  In carrying out the outreach program developed under paragraph (1), the Administrator shall—  (A)  inform prospective grant recipients how to apply for a grant awarded under this section;  (B)  describe to prospective grant recipients the benefits of available zero emissions port equipment and technology;  (C)  explain to prospective grant recipients the benefits of participating in the grant program established under this section; and  (D)  facilitate the sharing of best practices and lessons learned between grant recipients and prospective grant recipients with respect to how to apply for and use grants awarded under this section.  (f)  Reports  (1)  Report to Administrator  Not later than 90 days after the date on which an eligible entity uses a grant awarded under this section, such eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator a report containing such information as the Administrator shall require.  (2)  Annual report to Congress  Not later than January 31, 2022, and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to Congress and make available on the website of the Environmental Protection Agency a report that includes, with respect to each grant awarded under this section during the preceding calendar year—  (A)  the name and location of the eligible entity that was awarded such grant;  (B)  the amount of such grant that the eligible entity was awarded;  (C)  the name and location of the port where the zero emissions port equipment and technology that was purchased, and as applicable installed, with such grant is used;  (D)  an estimate of the impact of such zero emissions port equipment and technology on reducing—  (i)  greenhouse gas emissions;  (ii)  emissions of criteria pollutants and precursors thereof;  (iii)  hazardous air pollutant emissions; and  (iv)  public health disparities; and  (E)  any other information the Administrator determines necessary to understand the impact of grants awarded under this section.   (g)  Authorization of appropriations  (1)  In general  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2031.  (2)  Nonattainment areas  To the extent practicable, at least 25 percent of amounts made available to carry out this section in each fiscal year shall be used to award grants to eligible entities to provide zero emissions port equipment and technology to ports that are in nonattainment areas.  (h)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Active duty  The term  active duty  has the meaning given such term in section 101 of title 10, United States Code. (2)  Administrator The term  Administrator  means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. (3)  Alternative emissions control technology The term  alternative emissions control technology  means a technology, technique, or measure that— (A)  captures the emissions of nitrogen oxide, particulate matter, reactive organic compounds, and greenhouse gases from the auxiliary engine and auxiliary boiler of an ocean-going vessel at berth;   (B)  is verified or approved by a State or Federal air quality regulatory agency;  (C)  the use of which achieves at least the equivalent reduction of emissions as the use of shore power for an ocean-going vessel at berth;  (D)  the use of which results in reducing emissions of the auxiliary engine of an ocean-going vessel at berth to a rate of less than—  (i)  2.8 g/kW-hr for nitrogen oxide;  (ii)  0.03 g/kW-hr for particulate matter 2.5; and  (iii)  0.1 g/kW-hr for reactive organic compounds; and   (E)  reduces the emissions of the auxiliary engine and boiler of an ocean-going vessel at berth by at least 80 percent of the default emissions rate, which is 13.8 g.  (4)  Criteria pollutant The term  criteria pollutant  means each of the following: (A)  Ground-level ozone.  (B)  Particulate matter.  (C)  Carbon monoxide.  (D)  Lead.  (E)  Sulfur dioxide.  (F)  Nitrogen dioxide.  (5)  Distributed energy resource  (A)  In general The term  distributed energy resource  means an energy resource that— (i)  is located on or near a customer site;  (ii)  is operated on the customer side of the electric meter; and  (iii)  is interconnected with the electric grid.  (B)  Inclusions The term  distributed energy resource  includes— (i)  clean electric generation;  (ii)  customer electric efficiency measures;  (iii)  electric demand flexibility; and  (iv)  energy storage.  (6)  Eligible entity The term  eligible entity  means— (A)  a port authority;  (B)  a State, regional, local, or Tribal agency that has jurisdiction over a port authority or a port;  (C)  an air pollution control district or air quality management district; or  (D)  a private or nonprofit entity, applying for a grant awarded under this section in collaboration with another entity described in subparagraphs (A) through (C), that owns or uses cargo or transportation equipment at a port.  (7)  Energy storage system The term  energy storage system  means a system, equipment, facility, or technology that— (A)  is capable of absorbing energy, storing energy for a period of time, and dispatching the stored energy; and  (B)  uses a mechanical, electrical, chemical, electrochemical, or thermal process to store energy that—  (i)  was generated at an earlier time for use at a later time; or  (ii)  was generated from a mechanical process, and would otherwise be wasted, for delivery at a later time.  (8)  Fully automated cargo handling equipment The term  fully automated cargo handling equipment  means cargo handling equipment that— (A)  is remotely operated or remotely monitored; and  (B)  with respect to the use of such equipment, does not require the exercise of human intervention or control.  (9)  Major urban area The term  major urban area  means a metropolitan statistical area within the United States with an estimated population that is greater than or equal to 1,500,000. (10)  Nonattainment area The term  nonattainment area  has the meaning given such term in section 171 of the Clean Air Act ( 42 U.S.C. 7501 ). (11)  Port The term  port  includes a maritime port and an inland port. (12)  Port authority The term  port authority  means a governmental or quasi-governmental authority formed by a legislative body to operate a port. (13)  Project labor agreement The term  project labor agreement  means a pre-hire collective bargaining agreement with one or more labor organization that establishes the terms and conditions of employment for a specific construction project and is described in section 8(f) of the National Labor Relations Act ( 29 U.S.C. 158(f) ). (14)  Registered apprentice The term  registered apprentice  means a person who is participating in a registered apprenticeship program. (15)  Registered apprenticeship program The term  registered apprenticeship program  means a program registered pursuant to the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the “National Apprenticeship Act”; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663;  29 U.S.C. 50  et seq.). (16)  Shore power The term  shore power  means the provision of shoreside electrical power to a ship at berth that has shut down main and auxiliary engines. (17)  State Apprenticeship Agency The term  State Apprenticeship Agency  has the meaning given such term in section 29.2 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on January 1, 2020). (18)  Zero emissions port equipment and technology  (A)  In general The term  zero emissions port equipment and technology  means equipment and technology, including the equipment and technology described in subparagraph (B), that— (i)  is used at a port; and  (ii)  (I)  produces zero exhaust emissions of—  (aa)  any criteria pollutant and precursor thereof; and  (bb)  any greenhouse gas, other than water vapor; or  (II)  captures 100 percent of the exhaust emissions produced by an ocean-going vessel at berth.  (B)  Equipment and technology described  The equipment and technology described in this subparagraph are the following:  (i)  Any equipment that handles cargo.  (ii)  A drayage truck that transports cargo.  (iii)  A train that transports cargo.  (iv)  Port harbor craft.  (v)  A distributed energy resource.  (vi)  An energy storage system.  (vii)  Electrical charging infrastructure.  (viii)  Shore power or an alternative emissions control technology.  (ix)  An electric transport refrigeration unit. 
 3.  Energy Policy Act of 2005 authorization of appropriations for port authorities Section 797 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 ( 42 U.S.C. 16137 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (c)  Port authorities  There is authorized to be appropriated $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026 to award grants, rebates, or loans, under section 792, to eligible entities to carry out projects that reduce emissions at ports.  . 
