 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Promoting the Unbiased Role of Employees in the Executive Act  or the  PURE Executive Act .
 2.  5-year post-employment ban on lobbying by former senior executive branch personnel  (a)  5-year ban  Section 207 of title 18, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subsection (c)(1), by striking  within 1 year after the termination  and inserting  within 5 years after the termination ; and (2) in subsection (d)(1), by striking  within 2 years after the termination  and inserting  within 5 years after the termination . (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to any individual who, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, leaves a position to which subsection (c) or (d) of section 207 of title 18, United States Code, applies. 
 3.  Prohibiting former senior executive branch personnel from lobbying at any time on behalf of any foreign clients  (a)  Lifetime prohibition  Section 207(f) of title 18, United States Code, is amended—  (1)  by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4); and  (2)  by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:  (3)  Special rule for senior personnel of the executive branch and independent agencies  In the case of an individual who is subject to the restrictions of subsection (c) or (d), the restrictions described in paragraph (1) shall apply to representing, aiding, or advising foreign entities at any time after the individual leaves a position to which such subsection applies.  .  (b)  Extension of prohibition to all foreign clients Paragraph (4) of section 207(f) of such title, as redesignated by subsection (a)(1), is amended by striking the period at the end and inserting the following:  , except that in the case of an individual who is subject to the restrictions of subsection (c) or (d), such term means any foreign principal under such Act. . (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to any individual who, on or after the date of the enactment of this Act, leaves a position to which subsection (c) or (d) of section 207 of title 18, United States Code, applies. 
