 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  American Food for American Schools Act of 2021 .
 2.  Waiver to purchase foreign commodities or products  (a)  In general Section 12(n)(2) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1760(n)(2) ) is amended— (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking  subparagraph (B)  and inserting  subparagraphs (B) and (C) ; (2) in subparagraph (B)(ii), by striking for the school lunch program under this Act or the school breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 ( 42 U.S.C. 1773 ). and inserting  for—  (I)  the school lunch program under this Act, including any snacks served under such program;  (II) the special milk program under section 3 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 ( 42 U.S.C. 1772 ); and (III) the school breakfast program under section 4 of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 ( 42 U.S.C. 1773 ). .  (3)  by adding at the end the following:  (C)  Waiver  (i)  Waiver request  Except as provided in clause (ii), a school food authority shall request from the Secretary a waiver of subparagraph (A) to purchase foreign commodities or products.  (ii)  Exception  A school food authority may purchase foreign commodities or products without a waiver under clause (i) if such commodities or products are not—  (I)  produced domestically; or  (II)  available domestically.  (iii)  Requirements  The Secretary may not provide a waiver to purchase foreign commodities or products under clause (i) unless—  (I)  the commodities or products—  (aa)  are not produced domestically in sufficient amounts or of satisfactory quality; and  (bb)  if purchased domestically, would be significantly higher in price than such foreign commodities or products; and  (II)  the school enters into an agreement under clause (iv).  (iv)  Agreement  The Secretary may not provide a waiver under clause (i) unless the school food authority requesting such waiver agrees to—  (I)  not later than 30 days after receiving such a waiver, make the waiver publicly available on the website of the school food authority; and  (II)  not less than once each school year, email a notification of all waivers to parents or guardians of students who will be served the foreign commodity or product purchased pursuant to any such waivers.  .  (b)  Definition of foreign commodity Section 12(n)(1) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1760(n)(1) ) is amended to read as follows: (1)  Definitions  In this subsection:  (A)  Domestic commodity or product The term  domestic commodity or product  means— (i)  an agricultural commodity that is produced in the United States; and  (ii)  a food product that is processed in the United States substantially using agricultural commodities that are produced in the United States.  (B)  Foreign commodity or product The term  foreign commodity or product  means a commodity or product other than a domestic commodity or product. .  (c)  Conforming amendments Section 12(n) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1760(n) ) is amended— (1) in paragraph (3), by striking  Paragraph (2)(A)  and inserting  Subparagraphs (A) and (C) of paragraph (2) ; and (2) in paragraph (4), by striking  Paragraph (2)(A)  and inserting  Subparagraphs (A) and (C) of paragraph (2) . (d)  Rule of construction Nothing in this Act or the amendments by this Act shall affect the requirements under section 4207 of the Agriculture Improvement Act of 2018 ( 42 U.S.C. 1760  note).
