 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Improving Transparency in TANF through Data Act .
 2.  Aligning and improving data reporting  (a)  Require states To report full-Population data Section 411(a)(1) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 611(a)(1) ) is amended— (1)  by striking subparagraph (B);  (2) by striking (1)  General reporting requirement.— ; and (3)  by—  (A)  redesignating—  (i)  subparagraph (A) as paragraph (1);  (ii)  clauses (i) through (xvii) of subparagraph (A) as subparagraphs (A) through (Q), respectively;  (iii)  subclauses (I) through (V) of clause (ii) as clauses (i) through (v), respectively;  (iv)  subclauses (I) through (VII) of clause (xi) as clauses (i) through (vii), respectively; and  (v)  subclauses (I) through (V) of clause (xvi) as clauses (i) through (v), respectively; and  (B)  moving each such redesignated provision 2 ems to the left.  (b)  Reporting of participation in work or work preparation activities Section 411(a)(1) of such Act ( 42 U.S.C. 611(a)(1) ), as amended by subsection (a) of this section, is amended by striking subparagraphs (K) and (L) and inserting the following: (K)  The work eligibility status of each individual in the family, and—  (i)  in the case of each work-eligible individual in the family—  (I)  the number of hours (including zero hours) per month of participation in—  (aa)  work activities (as defined in section 407(d)); and  (bb)  any other activity required by the State to remove a barrier to employment.; and  (ii)  in the case of each individual in the family who is not a work-eligible individual, the reason for that status.  (L)  For each work-eligible individual and each adult in the family who did not participate in work activities (as so defined) during a month, the reason for the lack of participation.  .  (c)  Reporting To determine information on employment and earnings outcomes Section 411(c) of such Act ( 42 U.S.C. 611(c) ) is amended to read as follows: (c)  Reporting To determine information on employment and earnings outcomes  The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Labor, shall determine the information that is necessary to compute the employment and earnings outcomes and the statistical adjustment model for the employment and earnings outcomes required under section 407, and each eligible State shall collect and report that information to the Secretary.  . 
 3.  Effective date  The amendments made by this Act shall take effect on October 1, 2022. 
