 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Students Voicing Opinions in Today’s Elections (VOTE) Act .
 2.  Pilot program for providing voter registration information to secondary school students prior to graduation  (a)  Pilot program The Election Assistance Commission (hereafter in this Act referred to as the  Commission ) shall carry out a pilot program under which the Commission shall provide funds during fiscal year 2021 to eligible local educational agencies for initiatives to provide information on registering to vote in elections for public office to secondary school students in the 12th grade. (b)  Eligibility  A local educational agency is eligible to receive funds under the pilot program under this Act if the agency submits to the Commission, at such time and in such form as the Commission may require, an application containing—  (1)  a description of the initiatives the agency intends to carry out with the funds;  (2)  an estimate of the costs associated with such initiatives; and  (3)  such other information and assurances as the Commission may require.  (c)  Consultation with election officials  A local educational agency receiving funds under the pilot program shall consult with the State and local election officials who are responsible for administering elections for public office in the area served by the agency in developing the initiatives the agency will carry out with the funds.  (d)  Definitions In this Act, the terms  local educational agency  and  secondary school  have the meanings given such terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 ).
 3.  Reports  (a)  Reports by recipients of funds  Not later than the expiration of the 90-day period which begins on the date of the receipt of the funds, each local educational agency receiving funds under the pilot program under this Act shall submit a report to the Commission describing the initiatives carried out with the funds and analyzing their effectiveness.  (b)  Report by Commission  Not later than the expiration of the 60-day period which begins on the date the Commission receives the final report submitted by a local educational agency under subsection (a), the Commission shall submit a report to Congress on the pilot program under this Act. 
 4.  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary to carry out this Act. 
