 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Mitigate Methane Now Act . 
 2.  Improving the natural gas distribution system  (a)  Program  The Secretary of Energy shall establish a grant program to provide financial assistance to States to offset the incremental rate increases paid by low-income households resulting from the implementation of infrastructure replacement, repair, and maintenance programs that are approved by the rate-setting entity and designed to accelerate the necessary replacement, repair, or maintenance of natural gas distribution systems.  (b)  Date of eligibility  Awards may be provided under this section to offset rate increases described in subsection (a) occurring on or after the date of enactment of this Act.  (c)  Prioritization  The Secretary shall collaborate with States to prioritize the distribution of grants made under this section. At a minimum, the Secretary shall consider prioritizing the distribution of grants to States which have—  (1)  authorized or adopted enhanced infrastructure replacement programs or innovative rate recovery mechanisms, such as infrastructure cost trackers and riders, infrastructure base rate surcharges, deferred regulatory asset programs, and earnings stability mechanisms; and  (2)  a viable means for delivering financial assistance to low-income households.  (d)  Auditing and reporting requirements  The Secretary shall establish auditing and reporting requirements for States with respect to the performance of eligible projects funded pursuant to grants awarded under this section.  (e)  Prevailing wages All laborers and mechanics employed by contractors or subcontractors in the performance of construction, alteration, or repair work assisted, in whole or in part, by a grant under this section shall be paid wages at rates not less than those prevailing on similar construction in the locality as determined by the Secretary of Labor in accordance with subchapter IV of  chapter 31  of title 40. With respect to the labor standards in this subsection, the Secretary of Labor shall have the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267; 5 U.S.C. App.) and section 3145 of title 40. (f)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Innovative rate recovery mechanisms The term  innovative rate recovery mechanisms  means rate structures that allow State public utility commissions to modify tariffs and recover costs of investments in utility replacement incurred between rate cases. (2)  Low-income household The term  low-income household  means a household that is eligible to receive payments under section 2605(b)(2) of the Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981 ( 42 U.S.C. 8624(b)(2) ). (g)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $250,000,000 in each of fiscal years 2022 through 2031. 
