 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Bank Service Company Examination Coordination Act of 2021 .
 2.  Bank Service Company Act improvements The Bank Service Company Act ( 12 U.S.C. 1861  et seq.) is amended— (1)  in section 1(b)—  (A)  by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (9) as paragraphs (3) through (10), respectively; and  (B)  by inserting after paragraph (1) the following:  (2) the term  State banking agency  shall have the same meaning given the term  State Bank Supervisor  under section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act; ;  (2) in section 5(a), by inserting  , in consultation with the State banking agency,  after  banking agency ; and (3)  in section 7—  (A)  in subsection (a)—  (i) in the first sentence, by inserting  or State banking agency  after  appropriate Federal banking agency ; and (ii) in the second sentence, by striking  Federal banking agency that supervises any other shareholder or member  and inserting  Federal or State banking agency that supervises any other shareholder or member ; (B)  in subsection (c)—  (i) by inserting  or a State banking agency  after  appropriate Federal banking agency ; and (ii) by striking  such agency  each place such term appears and inserting  such Federal or State agency ; (C)  by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (f);  (D)  by inserting after subsection (c) the following:  (d)  Availability of information Information obtained pursuant to the regulation and examination of service providers under this section or applicable State law may be furnished by and accessible to Federal and State agencies to the same extent that supervisory information concerning depository institutions is authorized to be furnished to and required to be accessible by Federal and State agencies under section 7(a)(2) of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act ( 12 U.S.C. 1817(a)(2) ) or State law, as applicable. (e)  Coordination with State Banking Agencies  Where a State bank is principal shareholder or principal member of a bank service company or where a State bank is any other shareholder or member of the bank service company, the appropriate Federal banking agency, in carrying out examinations authorized by this section, shall—  (1)  provide reasonable and timely notice to the State banking agency; and  (2)  to the fullest extent possible, coordinate and avoid duplication of examination activities, reporting requirements, and requests for information.  ;   (E) in subsection (f), as so redesignated, by inserting  , in consultation with State banking agencies,  after  appropriate Federal banking agencies ; and (F)  by adding at the end the following:  (g)  Rule of construction  Nothing in this section shall be construed as granting authority for a State banking agency to examine a bank service company where no such authority exists in State law.  . 
 3.  Determination of Budgetary Effects The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled  Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation  for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
