 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the “ Tiny Homes for Homeless Veterans Act ”.
 2.  Pilot program on tiny homes for homeless veterans  (a)  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1)  In 2009, the Secretary of Veterans Affairs announced a plan to end veteran homelessness by the end of fiscal year 2015.  (2)  While the Department of Veterans Affairs did not reach such goal, the Department continues to focus on reducing the number of veterans experiencing homelessness.  (3)  As of January 2020, the Department of Housing and Urban Development estimated there to be 37,252 homeless veterans.  (4)  At the start of January 2020, 21 out of every 10,000 veterans in the United States were experiencing homelessness.  (5)  Veterans constitute about six percent of the population of the United States but eight percent of the country’s homeless population.  (6)  The leading causes of homelessness among veterans are post-traumatic stress disorder, social isolation, unemployment, and substance abuse.   (7)  Individual transitional housing units improve personal safety for veterans and reduce risks associated with close quarters living in a shelter.  (b)  Pilot program  (1)  Establishment Subchapter VII of  chapter 20  of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 2068.  Pilot program on tiny homes for homeless veterans.  (a)  Establishment The Secretary shall carry out a pilot program (in this section referred to as the  Program ) to make grants to facilitate the creation of five villages of tiny homes— (1)  across the United States with associated supportive services to allow veterans to build and live in the homes, maintain social connections with each other, learn skills, and receive critical counseling; and  (2)   to build the homes such that the homes are energy efficient with low carbon footprints.  (b)  Eligible entities  (1)  The Secretary may award a grant under the Program to any entity eligible for grants and per diem payments under sections 2011 and 2012 of this title, including—  (A) a non-profit organization described in section 501(c)(3) or  section 501(c)(19)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and (B)  a State or local government.  (2)  To be eligible for a grant under the Program, an entity specified in paragraph (1) shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate, including the following:  (A)  A description of the long-term goals and objectives for the proposed project.  (B)  A description of the village that the entity intends to build under the grant.  (C)  A list of all supportive services that the entity intends to provide under the grant.  (D)  The number of veterans that the village will be capable of housing at any given time.  (E)  A description of factors that an entity will use to screen veterans who will build and reside in the housing.  (F)  A description of how the entity will evaluate the performance of such entity under the grant.  (c)  Eligible uses  A recipient of a grant awarded under the Program shall use grant funds for the following:  (1)  Construction of the village.  (2)  Supportive job skills services, including—  (A)  reading and comprehending blueprints;  (B)  preparing foundation, framing, and exterior siding;  (C)  learning general tiny home design concepts;  (D)  installing finish woods, windows, doors, trim, baseboards, and stairs;  (E)  creating custom multifunctional furniture specifically designed for tiny home living; and  (F)  cooking skills.  (3)  Supportive counseling services, located in the village or in the local community with transportation to the community provided to the veterans, including—  (A)  case management services (pursuant to section 2022 of this title);  (B)  financial management;  (C)  counseling for addiction issues;  (D)  educational opportunities;  (E)  anger management; and  (F)  career and employment resources.  (4)  Any other use the Secretary determines appropriate.  (d)  Notice  The Secretary shall publish a Notice of Funding Opportunity on the internet website Grants.gov, or such successor website, for the Program.  (e)  Priority  In awarding grants under the Program, the Secretary shall give priority to an entity specified in subsection (c) that proposes to carry out the project facilitated with grant funds to create LEED-certified units.   (f)  Reporting  (1)  During each year beginning in the second year after being awarded a grant, each grantee shall submit to the Department a report on the activities of the grantee under the Program during the calendar year preceding the report, including the following:  (A)  The degree to which the grantee made progress toward meeting the long-term goals and objectives described in the application of the grantee and the performance by the grantee of the covered benchmarks described in the application.  (B)  The demographic data of veterans participating in the Program.  (C)  The details regarding the progress of such veterans toward achieving the ability to maintain housing and live independently, increasing skill levels and income, and obtaining greater self-determination.  (D)  Any other matter the Secretary determines appropriate.  (2)  During the fourth year of the Program, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations and Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate and House of Representatives a report comparing the outcomes of grantees under the Program to the outcomes of grantees under other grant and per diem payment programs that do not contain individual homes and a community center with supportive services, including the following:   (A)  The average amount of time a veteran stayed in a tiny home.  (B)  The percentage of veterans who exit the village to permanent housing.  (C)  The percentage of veterans who exit the village with competitive employment.  (D)  The percentage of veterans who have a negative exit from the village.  (E)  Any other matter the Secretary determinates appropriate.  (g)  Authorization of appropriations  Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary for grant and per diem payments for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2027, $10,000,000 may be used to carry out the program.  (h)  Sunset  The Secretary may not award a grant under the Program after the day that is six years after the date of the enactment of the Tiny Homes for Homeless Veterans Act.  (i)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  community center  means a building of approximately 2,000 square feet where the veterans can gather for socialization and to receive supportive services. (2) The term  cross-laminated timber  means a thermally modified wood product that is mildew-, rot-, and bug-resistant. (3) The term  negative exit , with respect to a veteran participating in the Program, means an instance under which a veteran leaves the Program because such veteran violated the rules of the Program (excluding exits because of threatened or actual violence to self or others), failed to comply with the requirements of the Program, or left the Program without consulting staff. (4) The term  State  means each State of the United States, the District of Columbia, each commonwealth, territory or possession of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe. (5) The term  tiny home  means an individual housing unit for one person of approximately 240 square feet or an individual housing unit for a family of approximately 340 square feet.  (6) The term  village  means the community of tiny homes and the community center.
 .  (2)  Clerical amendment  The table of contents at the beginning of chapter 20 of such title is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 2067 the following new item:  Sec. 2068. Pilot program on tiny homes for homeless veterans.  .  (c)  Implementation  The Secretary shall carry out section 2068 of such title, as added by subsection (b), not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section. 
