 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Keeping Our Promises Act .
 2.  Addition of diseases to presumption of service connection for veterans exposed to certain herbicides while serving in the Republic of Vietnam  (a)  Specified diseases  Subsection (a)(2) of section 1116 of title 38, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:  (L)  Prostate cancer becoming manifest to a degree of disability of 10 percent or more.  (M)  AL amyloidosis becoming manifest to a degree of disability of 10 percent or more.  (N)  Early-onset peripheral neuropathy becoming manifest to a degree of 10 percent or more within one year after the last date on which the veteran was exposed to an herbicide agent during active military, naval, or air service.  (O)  Ischemic heart disease becoming manifest to a degree of disability of 10 percent or more.  (P)  Stroke becoming manifest to a degree of disability of 10 percent or more.  (Q)  Hypertension becoming manifest to a degree of disability of 10 percent or more.  .   (b)  Additional diseases  (1)  Extension of sunset Subsection (e) of such section 1116 is amended by striking  2015  and inserting  2030 .  (2)  Prohibition of cost as factor  Subsection (b) of such section 1116 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:  (4)  In making determinations for the purpose of this subsection, the Secretary may not take into account the costs to the United States relating to paying compensation under this section pursuant to such determination.  .  (3)  Timing and submission of determinations  Subsection (c)(1) of such section 1116 is amended—  (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking  60 days  both places it appears and inserting  120 days ; and (B)  in subparagraph (B)—  (i) by inserting  and submit to the Committees on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Senate  after  publish in the Federal Register ; and (ii) by inserting  , and any other factor that contributed to,  after  scientific basis for .
