 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  U.S.-Israel Military Technology Cooperation Act . 
 2.  Modification of United States-Israel Operations-Technology cooperation with the United States-Israel Defense Acquisition Advisory Group Section 1299M of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 ( Public Law 116–283 ) is amended— (1) by striking the section heading and inserting  Establishment of United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group ; (2)  by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:  (a)  Requirement  (1)  In general  The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, shall take actions within the United States-Israel Defense Acquisition Advisory Group—  (A)  to provide a standing forum for the United States and Israel to systematically share intelligence-informed military capability requirements;   (B)  to identify military capability requirements common to the Department of Defense and the Ministry of Defense of Israel;  (C)  to assist defense suppliers in the United States and Israel by assessing recommendations from such defense suppliers with respect to joint science, technology, research, development, test, evaluation, and production efforts; and   (D)  to develop, as feasible and advisable, combined United States-Israel plans to research, develop, procure, and field weapon systems and military capabilities as quickly and economically as possible to meet common capability requirements of the Department and the Ministry of Defense of Israel.  (2)  Rule of construction  Nothing in this subsection shall be construed as requiring the termination of any existing United States defense activity, group, program, or partnership with Israel.  ;  (3)  by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:  (c)  Establishment of United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group within the United States-Israel Defense Acquisition Advisory Group  (1)  In general Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of the  National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2022 , the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the appropriate heads of other Federal agencies and with the concurrence of the Minister of Defense of Israel, shall establish, under the United States vice chairman of the United States-Israel Defense Acquisition Advisory Group, a United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group to address operations and technology matters described in subsection (a)(1). (2)  Extension with respect to terms of reference  The 1-year period under paragraph (1) may be extended for up to 180 days if the Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of State, certifies in writing to the appropriate congressional committees that additional time is needed to finalize the terms of reference. Such certification shall be made in unclassified form.  ; and   (4) in subsection (d)(2), by striking  United States-Israel Defense Acquisition Advisory Group  each place it appears and inserting  United States-Israel Operations-Technology Working Group .
