 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  National Commission on Renaming the J. Edgar Hoover FBI Headquarters Building Act of 2021 .
 2.  Establishment There is established a commission to be known as the  National Commission on Renaming the J. Edgar Hoover FBI Headquarters Building  (in this Act referred to as the  Commission ).
 3.  Duties of Commission  (a)  In general  The Commission shall review the designation of the J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I. Building, located at 935 Pennsylvania Avenue Northwest in the District of Columbia, and provide recommendations on the redesignation of such building.  (b)  Scope of review  In conducting the review and developing the recommendations required by subsection (a), the Commission shall consider the following:  (1)  The criteria for any redesignation of the J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I. Building, including—  (A)  ensuring that such redesignation reflects—  (i) the mission and values of the Federal Bureau of Investigation (in this Act referred to as the  FBI ); (ii)  racial, ethnic, and gender diversity; and  (iii)  the values of the United States Constitution;  (B)  serving as an inspiration to FBI employees and citizens of the United States; and  (C)  honoring living persons when appropriate and in exceptional cases.  (2)  The rules, regulations, and procedures for the designation of Federal buildings.  (3)  Any other criteria that the Commission determines are relevant. 
 4.  Membership  (a)  Number and appointment  The Commission shall be composed of 8 members appointed as follows:  (1)  2 members appointed by the President, in consultation with the Attorney General and Director of the FBI.  (2)  2 members appointed by the majority leader of the Senate.  (3)  1 member appointed by the minority leader of the Senate.  (4)  2 members appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.  (5)  1 member appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.  (b)  Criteria  Each member of the Commission shall have expertise in the history of the Federal Government or social justice issues.  (c)  Chair and vice chair  The Chair and Vice Chair of the Commission shall be elected by the members of the Commission.  (d)  Appointment  (1)  Deadline for initial appointment  Each member of the Commission shall be appointed not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act.   (2)  Effect of lack of appointment  If the appointment for a membership position described in subsection (a) is not made by the appointment deadline described under paragraph (1), or if a membership position described in subsection (a) is vacant for more than 90 days, the authority to make an appointment for such position shall transfer to the Chair.  (e)  Terms  Each member shall be appointed for the life of the Commission.  (f)  Vacancy  A vacancy in the Commission shall—  (1)  not affect the powers of the Commission; and  (2)  be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made. 
 5.  Reports  (a)  Interim report  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the President and Congress an interim report on the activities of the Commission related to the redesignation of the J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I. Building.  (b)  Final report  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall submit to the President and Congress a report on the results of the review carried out pursuant to section 3(a) and any recommendations related to the redesignation of the J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I. Building. 
 6.  Redesignation  (a)  In general  Not later than 30 days after the Commission submits the final report pursuant to section 5(b), the Director of the FBI shall determine whether to redesignate the J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I. Building in accordance with the recommendations of the Commission.   (b)  Report  If the Director of the FBI makes a determination that the J. Edgar Hoover F.B.I. Building should not be redesignated in accordance with the recommendations of the Commission, the Director shall submit to Congress a report explaining the reason for such determination.  (c)  Building relocation  If the headquarters of the FBI holds a designation provided under this Act and such headquarters is moved to a different facility, such facility shall hold the same such designation. 
 7.  Termination  The Commission shall terminate on the date that is not later than 30 days after the Commission submits the final report pursuant to section 5(b). 
