 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  DHS Basic Training Accreditation Improvement Act of 2021 .
 2.  Reporting on basic training programs of the Department of Homeland Security  (a)  Annual reporting  (1)  In general  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act and annually thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall report to the relevant congressional committees on the accreditation status for each basic training program within the Department of Homeland Security, including information relating to the following:  (A)  The date on which each such program achieved initial accreditation, or in the case of a program that is not currently accredited, the reasons for not obtaining or maintaining accreditation, the activities, if any, taken to achieve accreditation, and an anticipated timeline for accreditation of such program.  (B)  The date each such program most recently received accreditation or reaccreditation, if applicable.  (C)  Each such program’s anticipated accreditation or next reaccreditation date.  (D)  The name of the accreditation manager for each such program.  (2)  Termination of reporting requirement  Annual reports under paragraph (1) shall terminate when all basic training programs of the Department of Homeland Security are accredited.  (b)  Lapse in accreditation  (1)  In general  If a basic training program of the Department of Homeland Security loses accreditation, the head of the relevant component of the Department shall notify the Secretary of Homeland Security not later than 30 days after such loss.  (2)  Notice to congress  Not later than 30 days after receiving a notification pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall notify the relevant congressional committees of the lapse in accreditation at issue, the reason for such lapse, and the activities underway and planned to regain accreditation.  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Accreditation The term  accreditation  means the recognition by a board that a basic training program is administered, developed, and delivered according to an applicable set of standards. (2)  Accreditation manager The term  accreditation manager  means the individual assigned by the component of the Department of Homeland Security to manage accreditation activities for a basic training program. (3)  Basic training program The term  basic training program  means an entry level program of the Department of Homeland Security that is transitional to law enforcement service, provides training on critical competencies and responsibilities, and is typically a requirement for appointment to a law enforcement service job or job series. (4)  Reaccreditation The term  reaccreditation  means the assessment of a basic training program after initial accreditation to ensure the continued compliance with an applicable set of standards. (5)  Relevant congressional committees The term  relevant congressional committees  means the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.
 3.  Research and development  The Under Secretary for Science and Technology of the Department of Homeland Security shall carry out research and development of systems and technologies to enhance access to training offered by the Federal Law Enforcement Training Centers to State, local, Tribal, and territorial law enforcement, with particular attention to law enforcement in rural and remote communities, for the purpose of enhancing domestic preparedness for and collective response to terrorism and other homeland security threats. 
