 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Safe Stay Act .
 2.  Updating fire prevention and control guidelines to require mandatory installation of carbon monoxide alarms in places of public accommodation  (a)  In general Section 29(a) of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 ( 15 U.S.C. 2225(a) ) is amended— (1)  in paragraph (1)—  (A) by striking  Standard 74  and inserting  Standard 72 ; and (B) by striking  and  after the semicolon; (2) in paragraph (2), by striking the period and inserting  ; and ; and (3)  by adding at the end the following:   (3)  a requirement that compliant carbon monoxide alarms shall be installed in each sleeping or dwelling unit within each place of public accommodation affecting commerce.  .  (b)  Definitions Section 29(d) of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 ( 15 U.S.C. 2225(d) ) is amended by adding at the end the following:  (4) The term  compliant carbon monoxide alarm  means a carbon monoxide alarm or detection system installed in accordance with the International Fire Code or National Fire Protection Association Standard 72, and the applicable UL standards referenced therein.  (5) The term  National Fire Protection Association Standard 72  refers to the latest edition of the National Fire Alarm and Signaling Code published by the National Fire Protection Association Standard, or any successor standard relating to the proper installation of carbon monoxide alarms. (6) The term  International Fire Code  refers to the latest edition of the International Fire Code published by the International Code Council, or any successor code relating to the proper installation of carbon monoxide alarms.  .  (c)  Dissemination of information Section 30 of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 ( 15 U.S.C. 2226 ) is amended in the first sentence— (1) by striking  and automatic smoke detection systems  and inserting  , automatic smoke detection systems, and compliant carbon monoxide alarms (as defined in section 29(d)) ; and (2) by inserting before the period at the end the following:  and compliant carbon monoxide alarms . (d)  Updating of lists  The Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall take such steps as may be necessary to ensure that—  (1) each State updates the list submitted to the Administrator pursuant to subsection (a) of section 28 of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 ( 15 U.S.C. 2224 ) to reflect the amendments made by this section; and (2)  the master list published under subsection (b) of such section is updated to reflect the changes to the State lists made pursuant to paragraph (1).  (e)  Interpretation  Nothing in this Act or the amendments made under this Act shall be construed to prohibit the application of standards with respect to the installation of carbon monoxide alarms or detection systems in places of public accommodation that are higher than the standards under the latest edition of the International Fire Code or the National Fire Protection Association Standard 72, and the applicable UL standards referenced therein. 
 3.  Notice of compliant carbon monoxide alarms  (a)  In general The owner or operator of a place of public accommodation affecting commerce (as defined in section 4 of the Federal Fire Prevention and Control Act of 1974 ( 15 U.S.C. 2203 )) shall provide to each guest of such place of public accommodation, upon check-in, written notice attesting that such place of public accommodation is in compliance with the requirement described in section 29(a)(3) of such Act ( 15 U.S.C. 2225(a)(3) ). (b)  Enforcement by Federal Trade Commission  (1)  Unfair or deceptive acts or practices A violation of subsection (a) or a regulation promulgated under such subsection shall be treated as a violation of a regulation under section 18(a)(1)(B) of the  Federal Trade Commission Act  ( 15 U.S.C. 57a(a)(1)(B) ) regarding unfair or deceptive acts or practices.  (2)  Powers of Commission The Federal Trade Commission shall enforce subsection (a) and the regulations promulgated under such subsection in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the  Federal Trade Commission Act  ( 15 U.S.C. 41 et seq. ) were incorporated into and made a part of this section. Any person who violates such subsection or a regulation promulgated under such subsection shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in the Federal Trade Commission Act. (3)  Regulations  The Federal Trade Commission may promulgate regulations under section 553 of title 5, United States Code, to carry out subsection (a).  (c)  Effective date  This section shall take effect on the date that is 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
