 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Carbon Capture Modernization Act .
 2.  Modifications of qualifying advanced coal project credit  (a)  Sequestration requirement for certain equipment  Section 48A(e)(1)(G)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting  and 60 percent in the case of an application for a reallocation of credits under subsection (d)(4) with respect to an electrical generating unit in existence on October 3, 2008  after  under subsection (d)(4) . (b)  Nameplate generating capacity requirement Section 48A(e)(1)(C) of such Code is amended by striking  400 megawatts  and inserting  200 megawatts . (c)  Advanced coal-Based generation technology requirements  (1)  In general Section 48A(f)(1) of such Code is amended by striking  generation technology if—  and all that follows through  the unit is designed  and inserting  generation technology if the unit is designed . (2)  Conforming amendments  Section 48A(f) is amended—  (A) by striking all that precedes  the purpose of this section  and inserting the following: (f)  Advanced coal-Based generation technology  For  ,  (B) by striking  in subparagraph (B)  in the second sentence and inserting  in this subsection , and (C)  by striking paragraphs (2) and (3).  (d)  Performance requirements in case of best available control technology Section 48A(f) of such Code, as amended by this Act, is amended by adding at the end the following: In the case of a retrofit of a unit which has undergone a best available control technology analysis after August 8, 2005, with respect to the removal or emissions of any pollutant which is SO 2  or NO x , the removal or emissions design level with respect to such pollutant shall be the level determined in such analysis.. (e)  Clarification of reallocation authority  Section 48A(d)(4)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended— (1)  in subparagraph (A)—  (A) by striking  Not later than 6 years after the date of enactment of this section, the  and inserting  The , and (B) by inserting  and every 6 months thereafter until all credits available under this section have been allowed  after  the date which is 6 years after the date of enactment of this section , (2)  in subparagraph (B)—  (A) by striking  may reallocate credits available under clauses (i) and (ii) of paragraph (3)(B)  and inserting  shall reallocate credits remaining available under paragraph (3) , (B) by striking  or  at the end of clause (i), and (C)  by striking clause (ii) and inserting the following:  (ii)  any applicant for certification which submitted an accepted application has subsequently failed to satisfy the requirements under paragraph (2)(D), or  (iii)  any certification made pursuant to paragraph (2) has been revoked pursuant to paragraph (2)(E).  , and  (3)  in subparagraph (C)—  (A) by striking  clause (i) or (ii) of paragraph (3)(B)  and inserting  paragraph (3) , (B) by striking  is authorized to  and inserting  shall , and (C) by striking  an additional program  and inserting  additional programs . (f)  Effective date  (1)  In general  Except as provided in paragraph (2), the amendments made by this section shall apply to allocations and reallocations after the date of the enactment of this Act.  (2)  Reallocation The amendments made by subsection (e) shall apply to credits remaining available under  section 48A(d)(3)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 on the date of the enactment of this Act.
