 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Department of Homeland Security Border Support Services Contracts Review Act .
 2.  Assessment of contracts for covered services by the Department of Homeland Security  (a)  Report  (1)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Under Secretary for Management of the Department of Homeland Security, in consultation with appropriate officials of the Department, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on active contracts for covered services of the Department awarded on or before September 30, 2021.  (2)  Elements  The report required under paragraph (1) shall include the following:  (A)  The criteria used by the Department to determine whether contractor personnel were necessary to assist the Department in carrying out its mission along the borders of the United States.  (B)  An analysis of the purpose, quantity, and location of contractor personnel to perform covered services of the Department with respect to effectively—  (i)  addressing mission needs along such borders; and  (ii)  enhancing the capability of Department personnel to perform primary mission responsibilities, including the number of Department personnel not removed from their primary mission responsibilities by reason of the performance of covered services by contractor personnel.  (C)  An assessment with respect to the benefits of contractor personnel performing covered services, including whether the performance of such services by contractor personnel is more efficient or effective than the performance of such services by Department employees.  (D)  An assessment of opportunities to increase the efficiency of the Department with respect to contracting, including whether Department-wide contract vehicles for covered services would be the most cost effective option for the performance of covered services.   (E)  A strategy to improve the procurement and delivery of covered services through contracts during the five-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act to achieve the best value for the Department through the use of full and open competition and to ensure no lapse in the performance of such services.   (F)  Recommendations based on findings resulting from the analysis and assessments required in subparagraphs (B) through (D).  (G)  Any other information relating to contracts for covered services that the Under Secretary determines to be appropriate.  (b)  Implementation plan  (1)  In general  The Under Secretary for Management shall transmit with the report required under subsection (a) a plan to implement the recommendations and strategy contained in such report to enhance coordination, minimize overlap, and increase cost effectiveness among contracts for covered services.  (2)  Briefing  Not later than 180 days after the date on which the Under Secretary for Management submits the report required under paragraph (1) of subsection (a) and the plan required under paragraph (1) and every 180 days thereafter until the plan is fully implemented, the Under Secretary, or the designee of the Under Secretary, shall provide a briefing to the appropriate congressional committees with respect to the status of such implementation.  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (A)  the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives; and  (B)  the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate.  (2) The term  contract for covered services  means a contract relating to the procurement of covered services for the Department of Homeland Security. (3) The term  covered services  means with respect to the borders of the United States, any service related to border security provided by a contractor to be used by the Department.
