 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  No Amnesty Act . 
 2.  Ending amnesty policies  (a)  In general No funds, resources, or fees made available to the Secretary of Homeland Security, or to any other official of a Federal agency, including any deposits into the  Immigration Examinations Fee Account  established under section 286(m) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1356(m) ), may be used to implement, administer, enforce, or carry out (including through the issuance of any regulations), any of the following: (1) The memorandum from the Acting Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement entitled  Interim Guidance: Civil Immigration Enforcement and Removal Priorities  dated February 18, 2021. (2) The executive order from the President entitled  Rebuilding and Enhancing Programs to Resettle Refugees and Planning for the Impact of Climate Change on Migration  dated February 9, 2021. (3) The executive order from the President entitled  Creating a Comprehensive Regional Framework to Address the Causes of Immigration, to Manage Migration Throughout North and Central America, and to Provide Safe and Orderly Processing of Asylum Seekers at the United States Border  dated February 5, 2021. (4) The executive order from the President entitled  Revision of Civil Immigration Enforcement Policies and Priorities  dated January 25, 2021. (5) The executive order from the President entitled  Restoring Faith in Our Legal Immigration Systems and Strengthening Integration and Inclusion Efforts for New Americans  dated February 5, 2021. (6) The memorandum from the President entitled,  Preserving and Fortifying Deferred Action for Childhood Arrivals (DACA)  dated January 25, 2021. (7) The memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland Security entitled  Policies for the Apprehension, Detention and Removal of Undocumented Immigrants  dated November 20, 2014. (8) The memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland Security entitled  Secure Communities  dated November 20, 2014. (9) The memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland Security entitled  Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to Individuals Who Came to the United States as Children and with Respect to Certain Individuals Who Are the Parents of U.S. Citizens or Permanent Residents  dated November 20, 2014. (10) The memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland Security entitled  Expansion of the Provisional Waiver Program  dated November 20, 2014. (11) The memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland Security entitled  Directive to Provide Consistency Regarding Advance Parole  dated November 20, 2014. (12) The memorandum from the Secretary of Homeland Security entitled  Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion with Respect to Individuals Who Came to the United States as Children  dated June 15, 2012. (13) U.S. Citizenship and Immigration Services policy memorandum entitled  Revised Guidance for the Referral of Cases and Issuance of Notices to Appear (NTAs) in Cases Involving Inadmissible and Removable Aliens  dated November 17, 2011. (14) The memorandum from the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement entitled  Exercising Prosecutorial Discretion Consistent with the Civil Immigration Enforcement Priorities of the Agency for the Apprehension, Detention, and Removal of Aliens  dated June 17, 2011. (15) The memorandum from the Director of U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement entitled  Civil Immigration Enforcement: Priorities for the Apprehension, Detention, and Removal of Aliens  dated March 2, 2011. (16)  Any policy issued or taken on or after the date of approval, whether set forth in memorandum, Executive order, regulation, directive, or by other action, that is substantially similar to a policy in a memorandum or executive order described in any of paragraphs (1) through (15).  (b)  Memoranda to have no force or effect  The memoranda and executive orders described in paragraphs (1) through (16) of subsection (a) shall have no force or effect.  
