 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Updating Postal Data on Addresses for Trustworthy Elections Act  or the  UPDATE Act .
 2.  Change of address information provided to State election officials  (a)  In general Section 9 of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 ( 52 U.S.C. 20508 ) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:  (c)  United States Postal Service change of address information  Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, and every 90 days thereafter, the Postmaster General of the United States Postal Service shall provide to the chief State election official of each State the change of address records available in the National Change of Address product maintained by the United States Postal Service.  .  (b)  Effective date  The amendment made by this section shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act.  (c)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Postmaster General of the United States Postal Service $600,000 to carry out the amendment made by this section. 
 3.  Payments to States for the maintenance of voter registration lists  (a)  In general The Election Assistance Commission shall make a payment to each eligible State for carrying out maintenance of each such State’s computerized voter registration list under section 303 of the Help America Vote Act of 2002 ( 52 U.S.C. 21083 ) and for carrying out programs under section 8 of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 ( 52 U.S.C. 20507 ) to ensure the accuracy of voter registration lists in the State. (b)  Eligibility  A State is eligible to receive a payment under this section if the State submits to the Commission an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information and assurances as the Commission may require.  (c)  Amount of payment  (1)  In general Subject to  paragraph (2) , the amount of a payment made to a State under this section shall be equal to the product of— (A) the total amount appropriated for such payments pursuant to the authorization under  subsection (f) ; and (B)  the State allocation percentage for the State.  (2)  Minimum amount of payment  The amount of a payment made to a State under this section may not be less than—  (A)  in the case of any of the several States or the District of Columbia, one-half of 1 percent of the total amount appropriated for such payments; or  (B)  in the case of the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, Guam, American Samoa, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, one-tenth of 1 percent of such total amount.  (3)  Pro rata reductions The Commission shall make such pro rata reductions to the allocations determined under  paragraph (1)  as are necessary to comply with the requirements of  paragraph (2) . (d)  Continuing availability of funds after appropriation  A payment made to a State under this section shall be available to the State without fiscal year limitation.  (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  State The term  State  means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, American Samoa, Guam, the United States Virgin Islands, and the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands. (2)  State allocation percentage The term  State allocation percentage  means, with respect to a State, the amount (expressed as a percentage) equal to the quotient of— (A)  the voting age population of the State (as reported in the most recent decennial census); and  (B)  the total voting age population of all States (as reported in the most recent decennial census).   (f)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated $25,000,000 for payments under this section. 
