
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Small Business Development Center Cyber Training Act of 2021 .
  2.  Duties of small business development center counselors Section 21 of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 648 ) is amended by adding at the end the following:

 (o)  Cyber strategy training for small business development centers 
 (1)  Definitions  In this subsection—   (A) the term  cyber strategy  means resources and tactics to assist in planning for cybersecurity and defending against cyber risks and cyber attacks; and
 (B) the term  lead small business development center  means a small business development center that has received a grant from the Administration.  (2)  Certification program  The Administrator shall establish a cyber counseling certification program, or approve a similar existing program, to certify the employees of lead small business development centers to provide cyber planning assistance to small business concerns. 
 (3)  Number of certified employees  The Administrator shall ensure that the number of employees of each lead small business development center who are certified in providing cyber planning assistance under this subsection is not fewer than the lesser of—   (A)  5; or 
 (B)  10 percent of the total number of employees of the lead small business development center.   (4)  Consideration of Small Business Development Center Cyber Strategy In carrying out this subsection, the Administrator, to the extent practicable, shall consider any cyber strategy methods included in the Small Business Development Center Cyber Strategy developed under section 1841(a) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 ( Public Law 114–328 ; 130 Stat. 2662).
 (5)  Reimbursement for certification 
 (A)  In general  Subject to the availability of appropriations and subparagraph (B), the Administrator shall reimburse a lead small business development center for costs relating to the certification of an employee of the lead small business development center under the program established under paragraph (2).   (B)  Limitation  The total amount reimbursed by the Administrator under subparagraph (A) may not exceed $350,000 in any fiscal year.  . 

