 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Motorcyclist Advisory Council Reauthorization Act .
 2.  Motorcyclist Advisory Council  (a)  Establishment Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a Motorcyclist Advisory Council (in this section referred to as the  Council ). (b)  Duties  (1)  Advising  The Council shall advise the Secretary, the Administrator of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration, and the Administrator of the Federal Highway Administration on transportation issues of concern to motorcyclists, including—  (A)  barrier design;  (B)  road design, construction, and maintenance practices; and  (C)  the architecture and implementation of intelligent transportation system technologies.  (2)  Biennial council report  (A)  In general  The Council shall submit a report to the Secretary containing the Council’s recommendations on the issues described in paragraph (1).  (B)  Timing  Not later than October 31 of the calendar year following the calendar year in which the Council is established, and by every 2nd October 31 thereafter, the Council shall submit the report described in subparagraph (A).  (c)  Membership  (1)  In general  The Council shall be comprised of 13 members appointed by the Secretary as follows:  (A)  Five experts from State or local government on highway engineering issues, including—  (i)  barrier design;  (ii)  road design, construction, and maintenance; or  (iii)  intelligent transportation systems.  (B)  One State or local traffic and safety engineer, design engineer, or other transportation department official who is a motorcyclist.  (C)  One representative from a national association of State transportation officials.  (D)  One representative from a national motorcyclist association.  (E)  One representative from a national motorcyclist foundation.  (F)  One representative from a national motorcycle manufacturing association.  (G)  One representative from a motorcycle manufacturing company headquartered in the United States.  (H)  One roadway safety data expert on crash testing and analysis.  (I)  One member of a national safety organization that represents the traffic safety systems industry.  (2)  Duration  (A)  Term  Subject to subparagraphs (B) and (C), each member shall serve one term of 2 years.  (B)  Additional terms  If a successor is not designated for a member before the expiration of the term the member is serving, the member may serve another term.  (C)  Appointment of replacements  If a member resigns before serving a full 2-year term, the Secretary may appoint a replacement for such member to serve the remaining portion such term. A member may continue to serve after resignation until a successor has been appointed. A vacancy in the Council shall be filled in the manner in which the original appointment was made.  (3)  Compensation  Members shall serve without compensation.  (d)  Termination  The Council shall terminate 6 years after the date of its establishment. 
 3.  Duties of the Secretary  (a)  Accept or reject recommendation  (1)  Determination  The Secretary shall determine whether to accept or reject a recommendation contained in a Council report.  (2)  Timing  (A)  Accept or reject  The Secretary shall indicate in each report submitted under this section the Secretary’s acceptance or rejection of each recommendation listed in such report.  (B)  Under consideration  The Secretary may state in a report submitted under this section that a recommendation is under consideration. If the Secretary so states, the Secretary shall accept or reject the recommendation in the next report submitted under this section.  (b)  Report  (1)  In general  Not later than 60 days after the Secretary receives a Council report, the Secretary shall submit a report to the following:  (A)  The Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives.  (B)  The Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.  (C)  The Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.  (D)  The Subcommittee on Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives.  (E)  The Subcommittee on Transportation, and Housing and Urban Development, and Related Agencies of the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.  (2)  Contents  A report submitted under this subsection shall include—  (A)  a list containing—  (i)  each recommendation contained in the Council report described in paragraph (1); and  (ii)  each recommendation stated as under consideration in the previous report submitted under this subsection; and  (B)  for each such recommendation, whether it is accepted, rejected, or under consideration by the Secretary.  (c)  Administrative and technical support  The Secretary shall provide such administrative support, staff, and technical assistance to the Council as the Secretary determines to be necessary for the Council to carry out its duties. 
 4.  Definitions  In this Act, the following definitions apply:  (1)  Council report The term  Council report  means the report described in section 2(b)(2).  (2)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Transportation.
