 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Ensuring Kids Have Access to Medically Necessary Dental Care Act .
 2.  Prohibition of lifetime or annual limits on dental benefits under the Children's Health Insurance Program  (a)  In general Section 2103(c)(6) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1397cc(c)(6) ) is amended— (1) in subparagraph (A), by inserting  , subject to subparagraph (D),  after  shall include ; (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking  A State  and inserting  Subject to subparagraph (D), a State ; and (3)  by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:   (D)  No lifetime or annual limits on dental benefits  A State shall not establish lifetime or annual limits on the dollar value of benefits for dental services provided under the State child health plan to a targeted low-income child, and, in the case that the State elects to provide pregnancy-related assistance pursuant to section 2112, to a targeted low-income pregnant woman (as defined in section 2112(d)), including benefits for such services that are provided through dental coverage that is otherwise equivalent to a benchmark dental package described in subparagraph (C).  .  (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act. 
 3.  Requiring wraparound coverage of dental services for certain children under CHIP  (a)  In general Section 2110(b)(5) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1397jj(b)(5) ) is amended— (1) in the paragraph header, by striking  Option  and inserting  Requirement ; (2) in subparagraph (A), by striking  may waive  and inserting  shall waive ; and (3)  in subparagraph (C)—  (A) in the subparagraph header, by striking  Conditions  and inserting  Requirements ; and (B) by striking  may not offer dental-only supplemental coverage under this paragraph unless the State satisfies the following conditions  and inserting  shall offer dental-only supplemental coverage under this paragraph in accordance with the following requirements . (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date that is 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act. 
