
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Zero-Emission Nuclear Power Production Credit Act of 2021 .
  2.  Zero-emission nuclear power production credit   (a)  In general Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of  chapter 1  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

 45U.  Zero-emission nuclear power production credit 
 (a)  Amount of credit  For purposes of section 38, the zero-emission nuclear power production credit for any taxable year is an amount equal to the amount by which—   (1)  the product of— 
 (A)  1.5 cents, multiplied by   (B)  the kilowatt hours of electricity— 
 (i)  produced by the taxpayer at a qualified nuclear power facility, and   (ii)  sold by the taxpayer to an unrelated person during the taxable year, exceeds 
 (2)  the reduction amount for such taxable year.   (b)  Definitions   (1)  Qualified nuclear power facility For purposes of this section, the term  qualified nuclear power facility  means any nuclear facility—
 (A)  which is owned by the taxpayer and which uses nuclear energy to produce electricity,   (B)  which is not described in section 168(i)(10), and 
 (C)  which is not an advanced nuclear power facility, as defined in subsection (d)(1) of section 45J, or which has not received an allocation under subsection (b) of such section.   (2)  Reduction amount   (A)  In general For purposes of this section, the term  reduction amount  means, with respect to any qualified nuclear power facility for any taxable year, the amount equal to the lesser of—
 (i)  the amount determined under subsection (a)(1), or   (ii)  the amount equal to 80 percent of the excess of— 
 (I)  subject to subparagraph (B), the gross receipts from any electricity produced by such facility and sold to an unrelated person during such taxable year, over   (II)  the amount equal to the product of— 
 (aa)  2.5 cents, multiplied by   (bb)  the amount determined under subsection (a)(1)(B). 
 (B)  Treatment of certain receipts 
 (i)  In general  The amount determined under subparagraph (A)(ii)(I) shall include any amount received by the taxpayer during the taxable year with respect to the qualified nuclear power facility from a zero-emission credit program unless the amount received by the taxpayer is subject to reduction—   (I)  by the full amount of the credit determined under this section, or 
 (II)  by any lesser amount if such amount entirely offsets the amount received from a zero-emission credit program.   (ii)  Zero-emission credit program For purposes of this subparagraph, the term  zero-emission credit program  means any State or local government program that provides payments to a qualified nuclear power facility for, in whole or in part, the zero-emission, zero-carbon, or air quality attributes of any portion of the electricity produced by such facility.
 (3)  Electricity For purposes of this section (with the exception of subsection (d)(3)), the term  electricity  means the energy produced by a qualified nuclear power facility from the conversion of nuclear fuel into electric power.  (c)  Election for direct payment   (1)  In general  In the case of a taxpayer making an election (at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may provide) under this subsection with respect to any portion of the credit which would (without regard to this subsection) be determined under subsection (a) with respect to such taxpayer, such taxpayer shall be treated as making a payment against the tax imposed by subtitle A for the taxable year equal to the amount of such portion. 
 (2)  Timing  The payment described in paragraph (1) shall be treated as made on the later of the due date of the return of tax for the taxable year or the date on which such return is filed.   (3)  Exclusion from gross income  Gross income of the taxpayer shall be determined without regard to this subsection. 
 (4)  Denial of double benefit  Solely for purposes of section 38, in the case of a taxpayer making an election under this subsection, the credit determined under subsection (a) shall be reduced by the amount of the portion of such credit with respect to which the taxpayer makes such election.   (5)  Determination of eligibility for direct payments  For purposes of determining eligibility of a taxpayer for a direct payment under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall have the authority to request such information from the taxpayer as the Secretary may require. 
 (d)  Other rules 
 (1)  Inflation adjustment  The 1.5 cent amount in subsection (a)(1)(A) and the 2.5 cent amount in subsection (b)(2)(A)(ii)(II)(aa) shall each be adjusted by multiplying such amount by the inflation adjustment factor (as determined under section 45(e)(2)) for the calendar year in which the sale occurs. If any amount as increased under the preceding sentence is not a multiple of 0.1 cent, such amount shall be rounded to the nearest multiple of 0.1 cent.   (2)  Special rules  Rules similar to the rules of paragraphs (1), (3), (4), and (5) of section 45(e) shall apply for purposes of this section. 
 (3)  Phaseout of credit  If the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, determines that the annual greenhouse gas emissions from electricity production in the United States for a calendar year are equal to or less than 50 percent of the annual greenhouse gas emissions from electricity production in the United States for calendar year 2020, the amount of the credit determined under the subsection (a) shall be reduced by an amount equal to the product of—   (A)  the amount of credit determined under the subsection (a), as determined before application of this paragraph, multiplied by 
 (B)  an amount (expressed as a percentage) equal to twice the percentage amount that the percentage determined by the Secretary pursuant to this paragraph exceeds 50 percent.   (4)  Wage requirements The taxpayer shall ensure, with respect to a qualified nuclear power facility, that any laborers and mechanics employed by contractors and subcontractors in the construction, repair, alteration, or maintenance of such facility shall be paid wages at rates not less than the prevailing rates for construction, alteration, or repair of a similar character in the locality as determined by the Secretary of Labor, in accordance with subchapter IV of  chapter 31  of title 40, United States Code. 
 (e)  Recapture 
 (1)  In general  The Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Labor, shall, by regulations, provide for recapturing the benefit of any credit allowable under subsection (a) for any taxable year if the Secretary determines that the wage requirements described in subsection (d)(4) have been violated.    (2)  Investigation  Upon receipt of a complaint or its own initiative, the Secretary, in consultation with the Secretary of Energy and the Secretary of Labor, shall request and review the payroll records of contractors and subcontractors engaged in the performance of any construction, repair, alteration, or maintenance with respect to a qualified nuclear power facility, and interview individuals employed by such contractors and subcontractors, to determine whether the requirements of paragraph (1)(A) have been met. 
 (3)  Administration and enforcement  With respect to the administration and enforcement of the standards in paragraph (1)(A), the Secretary of Labor shall have the authority and functions set forth in Reorganization Plan Numbered 14 of 1950 (64 Stat. 1267; 5 U.S.C. App.) and section 3145 of title 40, United States Code.   (f)  Termination  This section shall not apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2030. 
 . 
 (b)  Conforming amendments 
 (1)  Section 38(b)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended—  (A) in paragraph (32), by striking  plus  at the end,
 (B) in paragraph (33), by striking the period at the end and inserting  , plus , and  (C)  by adding at the end the following new paragraph: 

 (34)  the zero-emission nuclear power production credit determined under section 45U(a).  .   (2)  The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new item: 


 Sec. 45U. Zero-emission nuclear power production credit.  . 
 (c)  Report Not later than January 1, 2024, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report with respect to the credits allowed for qualified nuclear power facilities under  section 45U  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as added by subsection (a)), which shall include—  (1)  an evaluation of the effectiveness of the credits allowed under such section in regards to ensuring grid reliability while avoiding emissions of carbon dioxide, nitrogen oxides, sulfur oxides, particulate matter, and hazardous air pollutants; 
 (2)  a quantification of the ratepayer savings achieved as a result of the credits allowed under such section; and   (3)  any recommendations to renew or expand the credits allowed under such section. 
 (d)  Effective date  This section shall apply to electricity produced and sold after December 31, 2020, in taxable years beginning after such date. 
  3.  Use of qualified apprentices   (a)  In general  All contractors and subcontractors engaged in the performance of construction, alteration, or repair work on any applicable project shall, subject to subsection (b), ensure that not less than 15 percent of the total labor hours of such work be performed by qualified apprentices. 
 (b)  Apprentice-to-Journeyworker ratio  The requirement under subsection (a) shall be subject to any applicable requirements for apprentice-to-journeyworker ratios of the Department of Labor or the applicable State apprenticeship agency.   (c)  Participation  Each contractor and subcontractor who employs 4 or more individuals to perform construction, alteration, or repair work on an applicable project shall employ 1 or more qualified apprentices to perform such work. 
 (d)  Exception  Notwithstanding any other provision in this section, this section shall not apply in the case of a taxpayer who—   (1)  demonstrates a lack of availability of qualified apprentices in the geographic area of the construction, alteration, or repair work; and 
 (2)  makes a good faith effort, and its contractors and subcontractors make a good faith effort, to comply with the requirements of this section.   (e)  Definitions  In this section: 
 (1)  Applicable project The term  applicable project  means, with respect to—  (A) subsection (e)(7)(A)(ii) of  section 30C  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986,
 (B)  subsection (f)(8)(A)(ii) of section 45Q of such Code,   (C)  subsection (b)(1)(A)(iv)(II) of section 45U of such Code,  
 (D)  subsections (b)(3)(A)(iv)(II) and (c)(1)(B)(ii) of section 48D of such Code, and    (E)  subsection 9c)(1)(E)(ii) of section179D of such Code,  any property, equipment, or facility for which a credit is allowed under such sections.  
 (2)  Labor hours The term  labor hours —  (A)  means the total number of hours devoted to the performance of construction, alteration, or repair work by employees of the contractor or subcontractor; and 
 (B)  excludes any hours worked by—   (i)  foremen; 
 (ii)  superintendents;   (iii)  owners; or 
 (iv)  persons employed in a bona fide executive, administrative, or professional capacity (within the meaning of those terms in part 541 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations).   (3)  Qualified apprentice The term  qualified apprentice  means an individual who is an employee of the contractor or subcontractor and who is participating in a registered apprenticeship program, as defined in  section 3131(e)(3)(B)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. 

