 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Responsible Budgeting Act . 
 2.  Presidential request to suspend the debt limit  (a)  In general  Title 31, United States Code, is amended by striking section 3101A and inserting the following:  3101A.  Modification of statutory limit on the public debt  (a)  In general Upon adoption by Congress of a concurrent resolution on the budget under section 301 or 304 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ( 2 U.S.C. 632 , 634) that satisfies the required ratio, as determined by the Congressional Budget Office, the Clerk of the House of Representatives shall prepare an engrossment of a joint resolution in the form prescribed in subsection (b) suspending the statutory limit on the public debt until the last day of the fiscal year of that concurrent resolution. Upon engrossment of the joint resolution, the vote by which the concurrent resolution on the budget was adopted by the House of Representatives shall also be considered as a vote on passage of the joint resolution in the House of Representatives, and the joint resolution shall be considered as passed by the House of Representatives and duly certified and examined. The engrossed copy shall be signed by the Clerk of the House of Representatives and transmitted to the Senate. Upon receipt of the House of Representatives joint resolution in the Senate, the vote by which the concurrent resolution on the budget was adopted in the Senate shall also be considered as a vote on passage of the joint resolution in the Senate, and the joint resolution shall be considered as passed by the Senate, duly certified and examined, and transmitted to the House of Representatives for enrollment.  (b)  Form of joint resolution  The form of the joint resolution described in this subsection is a joint resolution—  (1)  which does not have a preamble;   (2) the title of which is only as follows:  Joint resolution suspending the debt limit, as prepared under section 3101A of title 31, United States Code, on ______  (with the blank containing the date on which the joint resolution is prepared); and  (3) the matter after the resolving clause which is only as follows:  Section 3101(b) of title 31, United States Code, shall not apply for the period beginning on the date of enactment and ending on September 30, ____.  (with the blank being filled with the fiscal year of the concurrent resolution on the budget). (c)  Increase of debt limit  Effective on the date on which the authority of a joint resolution described in subsection (b) terminates, the limitation in effect under section 3101(b) shall be increased to the extent that—  (1)  the face amount of obligations issued under this chapter and the face amount of obligations whose principal and interest are guaranteed by the United States Government (except guaranteed obligations held by the Secretary of the Treasury) outstanding on such date, exceeds  (2)  the face amount of such obligations outstanding on the date the debt limit was last in effect.  (d)  Restoring Congressional Authority Over the National Debt  (1)  Extension limited to necessary obligations  An obligation shall not be taken into account under subsection (c)(1) unless the issuance of such obligation was necessary to fund a commitment incurred pursuant to law by the Federal Government that required payment before the date on which the authorization of the joint resolution described in subsection (b) terminates.   (2)  Prohibition on creation of cash reserve during extension period  The Secretary of the Treasury shall not issue obligations during the period specified in the matter after the resolving clause of a joint resolution, as described in subsection (b)(3), for the purpose of increasing the cash balance above normal operating balances in anticipation of the expiration of such period.  (e)  Rule of construction  Nothing in this section shall be construed as limiting or otherwise affecting—  (1)  the power of the House of Representatives or the Senate to consider and pass bills or joint resolutions, without regard to the procedures under subsection (a), that would change the statutory limit on the public debt; or  (2)  the rights of Members, Delegates, the Resident Commissioner, or committees with respect to the introduction, consideration, and reporting of such bills or joint resolutions.  (f)  Definition  In this section and section 3101B—  (1) the term  required ratio  means the ratio that— (A)  reduces by not less than 10 percentage points the projected ratio under current law of debt held by the public to Gross Domestic Product in the tenth fiscal year after the current fiscal year; and  (B)  reduces such projected ratio by 50 percent of the total reduction required under subparagraph (A) not later than the fifth fiscal year after the current fiscal year; and  (2) the term  statutory limit on the public debt  means the maximum face amount of obligations issued under authority of this chapter and obligations guaranteed as to principal and interest by the United States (except such guaranteed obligations as may be held by the Secretary of the Treasury), as determined under section 3101(b) after the application of section 3101(a), that may be outstanding at any one time.
 3101B.  Presidential modification of the debt ceiling  (a)  In general  (1)  Written notification  If, for a fiscal year, Congress does not adopt a concurrent resolution on the budget that satisfies the required ratio by the covered date, the President may submit a written notification to Congress, including a debt reduction proposal with legislative language that satisfies the required ratio, that the President is suspending the statutory limit on the public debt subject to limit in section 3101(b) and that further borrowing is required to meet existing commitments.  (2)  Effect of notification  (A)  In general  Subject to subparagraph (C), upon the submission of a written notification by the President under paragraph (1), including a debt reduction proposal comprised of legislative text that the Director of the Office of Management and Budget has determined satisfies the required ratio, the statutory limit on the public debt shall be suspended until the end of the fiscal year beginning in the calendar year in which the President submits a request.  (B)  Effective date  Except as provided in subparagraph (C), a suspension of the statutory limit on the public debt under subparagraph (A) shall take effect on the date that is 30 calendar days after the date on which the written notification is submitted by the President under paragraph (1).   (C)  Limitation on authority  The statutory limit on the public debt shall not be suspended under this paragraph if, during the 30-calendar-day period beginning on the date on which Congress receives a notification under this paragraph, Congress enacts into law a joint resolution of disapproval in accordance with subsection (b).   (3)  Covered date defined For purposes of paragraph (1), the term  covered date  means the earlier of— (A)  April 15 of the calendar year in which the fiscal year of the applicable concurrent resolution on the budget begins; or  (B)  60 days before the date on which the statutory limit on the public debt will be reached, as described in the congressional notification submitted by the Secretary of the Treasury.  (4)  Increase of debt limit  Effective on the date the debt limit extension pursuant to the written notification under paragraph (1) terminates, the limitation in effect under section 3101(b) shall be increased to the extent that—  (A)  the face amount of obligations issued under this chapter and the face amount of obligations whose principal and interest are guaranteed by the United States Government (except guaranteed obligations held by the Secretary of the Treasury) outstanding on such date, exceeds  (B)  the face amount of such obligations outstanding on the date the debt limit was last in effect.  (5)  Restoring Congressional Authority Over the National Debt  (A)  Extension limited to necessary obligations  An obligation shall not be taken into account under paragraph (4)(A) unless the issuance of such obligation was necessary to fund a commitment incurred pursuant to law by the Federal Government that required payment before the date on which the debt limit extension pursuant to the written notification under paragraph (1) terminates.   (B)  Prohibition on creation of cash reserve during extension period  The Secretary of the Treasury shall not issue obligations during the period beginning on the effective date described in paragraph (2)(B) and ending on the last day of the fiscal year described in paragraph (2)(A) for the purpose of increasing the cash balance above normal operating balances in anticipation of the expiration of such period.  (b)  Joint resolution of disapproval  (1)  In general  If a joint resolution of disapproval has not been enacted by the end of the 30-calendar-day period beginning on the date on which the presidential notification to which the joint resolution relates was received by Congress under subsection (a), the statutory limit on public debt shall be suspended as specified in the presidential notification.  (2)  Contents of joint resolution For the purpose of this section, the term  joint resolution  means only a joint resolution— (A)  that is introduced between the date the written notification is received and 3 calendar days after that date (or if the House of Representatives or Senate is not in session, the next calendar date in which it is in session);  (B)  which does not have a preamble;  (C) the title of which is only as follows:  Joint resolution relating to the disapproval of the President’s exercise of authority to suspend the debt limit, as submitted under section 3101B(a) of title 31, United States Code, on ______  (with the blank containing the date of such submission); and (D) the matter after the resolving clause of which is only as follows:  That Congress disapproves of the President’s exercise of authority to suspend the debt limit, as exercised pursuant to the written notification under section 3101B(a) of title 31, United States Code. . (c)  Expedited consideration in the House of Representatives  (1)  Reconvening  Upon receipt of a written notification described in subsection (a)(1), the Speaker of the House of Representatives, if the House of Representatives would otherwise be adjourned, shall notify the Members of the House of Representatives that, pursuant to this section, the House of Representatives shall convene not later than the second calendar day after receipt of such written notification.   (2)  Reporting and discharge  A joint resolution introduced under paragraph (1) shall be referred to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and such committee shall report the joint resolution to the House of Representatives without amendment not later than 5 calendar days after the date on which the joint resolution is introduced. If the Committee on Ways and Means fails to report the joint resolution within the 5-day period, the Committee on Ways and Means shall be discharged from further consideration of the joint resolution and it shall be referred to the appropriate calendar.  (3)  Proceeding to consideration  Upon report or discharge from the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, and not later than 6 days after the date on which the joint resolution is introduced under paragraph (1), it shall be in order to move to proceed to consider the joint resolution in the House of Representatives. All points of order against the motion are waived. Such a motion shall not be in order after the House of Representatives has disposed of a motion to proceed on a joint resolution addressing a particular submission. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening motion. The motion shall not be debatable. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is disposed of shall not be in order.  (4)  Consideration  The joint resolution shall be considered as read. All points of order against the joint resolution and against its consideration are waived. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the joint resolution to its passage without intervening motion except two hours of debate equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent. A motion to reconsider the vote on passage of the joint resolution shall not be in order.  (d)  Expedited procedure in Senate  (1)  Reconvening  Upon receipt of a written notification under subsection (a)(1), if the Senate has adjourned or recessed for more than 2 days, the majority leader of the Senate, after consultation with the minority leader of the Senate, shall notify the Members of the Senate that, pursuant to this section, the Senate shall convene not later than the second calendar day after receipt of such message.  (2)  Placement on calendar  Upon introduction in the Senate, the joint resolution shall be immediately placed on the calendar.  (3)  Floor consideration  (A)  In general  Notwithstanding Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order at any time during the period beginning on the day after the date on which Congress receives a written notification under subsection (a) and ending on the sixth day after the date on which Congress receives a written notification under subsection (a) (even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to) to move to proceed to the consideration of the joint resolution, and all points of order against the joint resolution (and against consideration of the joint resolution) are waived. The motion to proceed is not debatable. The motion is not subject to a motion to postpone. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in order. If a motion to proceed to the consideration of the resolution is agreed to, the joint resolution shall remain the unfinished business until disposed of.  (B)  Consideration  Consideration of the joint resolution, and on all debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 10 hours, which shall be divided equally between the majority and minority leaders or their designees. A motion further to limit debate is in order and not debatable. An amendment to, or a motion to postpone, or a motion to proceed to the consideration of other business, or a motion to recommit the joint resolution is not in order.  (C)  Vote on passage  If the Senate has voted to proceed to a joint resolution, the vote on passage of the joint resolution shall occur immediately following the conclusion of consideration of the joint resolution, and a single quorum call at the conclusion of the debate if requested in accordance with the rules of the Senate.  (D)  Rulings of the chair on procedure  Appeals from the decisions of the Chair relating to the application of the rules of the Senate, as the case may be, to the procedure relating to a joint resolution shall be decided without debate.  (e)  Amendment not in order  A joint resolution of disapproval considered pursuant to this section shall not be subject to amendment in either the House of Representatives or the Senate.  (f)  Coordination with action by other house  (1)  In general  If, before passing the joint resolution, one House receives from the other a joint resolution—  (A)  the joint resolution of the other House shall not be referred to a committee; and  (B)  the procedure in the receiving house shall be the same as if no joint resolution had been received from the other house until the vote on passage, when the joint resolution received from the other house shall supplant the joint resolution of the receiving House.  (2)  Treatment of joint resolution of other House  If the Senate fails to introduce or consider a joint resolution under this section, the joint resolution of the House shall be entitled to expedited floor procedures under this section.  (3)  Treatment of companion measures  If, following passage of the joint resolution in the Senate, the Senate then receives the companion measure from the House of Representatives, the companion measure shall not be debatable.  (4)  Consideration after passage  (A)  In general  If Congress passes a joint resolution, the period beginning on the date the President is presented with the joint resolution and ending on the date the President signs, allows to become law without the signature of the President, or vetoes and returns the joint resolution (but excluding days when either House is not in session) shall be disregarded in computing the appropriate calendar day period described in subsection (b)(1).  (B)  Debate on veto message  Debate on a veto message in the Senate under this section shall be 1 hour equally divided between the majority and minority leaders or their designees.  (C)  Veto override  If, within the 30-calendar-day period described in subsection (b)(1), Congress overrides a veto of a joint resolution, the limitation in effect under section 3101(b) shall not be suspended.   (g)  Rules of House of Representatives and Senate  This section and section 3101A are enacted by Congress—  (1)  as an exercise of the rulemaking power of the Senate and House of Representatives, respectively, and as such it is deemed a part of the rules of each House, respectively, but applicable only with respect to the procedure to be followed in that House in the case of a joint resolution, and it supersedes other rules only to the extent that it is inconsistent with such rules; and  (2)  with full recognition of the constitutional right of either House to change the rules (so far as relating to the procedure of that House) at any time, in the same manner, and to the same extent as in the case of any other rule of that House. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections of subchapter I of  chapter 31  of title 31, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 3101A and inserting the following: 3101A. Modification of statutory limit on the public debt.   3101B. Presidential modification of the debt ceiling.  . 
 3.  Consideration of the debt reduction proposal submitted by the President  (a)  In general Part A of title IV of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 ( 2 U.S.C. 651 et seq. ) is amended by inserting after section 406 the following: 407.  Consideration of the debt reduction proposal submitted by the President  (a)  In general  Any debt reduction proposal submitted by the President under section 3101B(a)(2)(A) of title 31, United States Code, is required to satisfy the required ratio as determined by the Office of Management and Budget.  (b)  Consideration of the President’s proposal in the House of Representatives  (1)  Introduction  Any debt reduction proposal submitted by the President under section 3101B of title 31, United States Code, shall be introduced by the majority or minority leader of the House of Representatives or their designees. Upon introduction, the Chair of the Committee on the Budget shall within 3 days submit the proposal to the Congressional Budget Office to be scored.  (2)  Referral  Any proposal introduced under paragraph (1) shall be referred to the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives.  (3)  Requests by budget committee  Not later than 3 days after the date on which a proposal is referred under paragraph (2), the Chair of the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives shall submit to each appropriate committee of the House a request that, during the 30-day period beginning on the date on which the request is made, the appropriate committee submit to the Committee on the Budget of the House—  (A)  a general assessment of the proposal introduced under paragraph (1); and   (B)  (i)  any recommendations related to the proposal; or  (ii)  any alternative recommendation to reduce the deficit within the jurisdiction of the committee.  (4)  Reported legislation by budget committee  (A)  In general  The Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives shall report a bill that meets the required ratio not later than 60 days after the date on which the President submits a debt reduction proposal under this section.  (B)  Contents of legislation  The bill reported under subparagraph (A) may include—  (i)  the debt reduction proposal submitted by the President under this section; and  (ii)  any recommendations submitted to the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives under paragraph (3), including any modifications to such proposals by the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives.  (C)  CBO score  (i)  In general  No bill may be reported under subparagraph (A) unless the Chair of the Committee on the Budget—  (I)  submits to the Director of the Congressional Budget Office such bill for a cost estimate to be prepared under section 402; and  (II)  receives from the Director a cost estimate described in subclause (I) that includes a statement that such bill meets the required ratio.  (ii)  Time period  The 60-day period described in subparagraph (A) shall not include the period beginning on the date on which the Chair of the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives submits to the Director of the Congressional Budget Office the bill under clause (i)(I) and ending on the date on which the Chair receives the cost estimate under clause (i)(II).   (5)  Discharge  (A)  In general  If the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives fails to report a bill within 60 days after the referral of the proposal submitted under section 3101B of title 31, United States Code, and such proposal has been determined by the Director to satisfy the required ratio, then the committee shall be discharged from further consideration of the bill that embodies the debt reduction proposal of the President and it shall be referred to the appropriate calendar.  (B)  Consideration  In the House of Representatives, if the Committee on Rules fails to report a rule within 7 legislative days of the bill being placed on the Calendar for the consideration of a bill reported by the Committee on the Budget under paragraph (4) or discharged under subparagraph (A) of this paragraph which has been determined by the Director to satisfy the required ratio, then any Member may offer a privilege resolution providing for the consideration of the bill. Such resolution shall provide that upon its adoption it shall be in order to consider in the House of Representatives the bill. The bill under the procedure set forth in section 408(c) shall be debatable for two hours equally divided and controlled by a proponent and opponent of thereof. The previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill of final passage without intervening motion except 1 motion to recommit.  (c)  Consideration of the President's proposal in the Senate  (1)  Introduction  Any debt reduction proposal submitted by the President under section 3101B of title 31, United States Code, shall be introduced by the majority or minority leader of the Senate or their designees. Upon introduction, the Chair of the Committee on the Budget shall within 3 days submit the proposal to the Congressional Budget Office to be scored.   (2)  Referral  Any proposal introduced under paragraph (1) shall be referred to the Committee on the Budget of the Senate.  (3)  Requests by budget committee  (A)  Appropriate committees  Not later than 3 days after the date on which a proposal is referred under paragraph (2), the Chair of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate shall submit to each appropriate committee of the Senate a request that, during the 30-day period beginning on the date on which the request is made, the appropriate committee submit to the Committee on the Budget of the Senate—  (i)  a general assessment of the proposal introduced under paragraph (1); and   (ii)  (I)  any recommendations related to the proposal; or  (II)  any alternative recommendation to reduce the deficit within the jurisdiction of the committee.  (B)  Other proposals  Any Member of the Senate may introduce a bill that meets the required ratio, as determined by the Congressional Budget Office, which shall be referred to the Committee on the Budget of the Senate if the proposal is sponsored by not less than one-fifth of the Members, duly chosen and sworn, including—  (i)  not fewer than 10 Members who are members of or caucus with the members of the political party of the majority leader of the Senate; and  (ii)  not fewer than 10 Members who are members of or caucus with any other political party that is not the political party of the majority leader of the Senate.  (4)  Reported legislation by budget committee  (A)  In general  The Committee on the Budget of the Senate shall report a bill that meets the required ratio not later than 60 days after the date on which the President submits a debt reduction proposal under this section.  (B)  Contents of legislation  The bill reported under subparagraph (A) may include—  (i)  the debt reduction proposal submitted by the President under this section; and  (ii)  any proposal submitted to the Committee on the Budget of the Senate under paragraph (3), including any modifications to such proposals by the Committee on the Budget of the Senate.  (C)  CBO score  (i)  In general  No bill may be reported under subparagraph (A) unless the Chair of the Committee on the Budget—  (I)  submits to the Director of the Congressional Budget Office such bill for a cost estimate to be prepared under section 402; and  (II)  receives from the Director a cost estimate described in subclause (I) that includes a statement that such bill meets the required ratio.  (ii)  Time period  The 60-day period described in subparagraph (A) shall not include the period beginning on the date on which the Chair of the Committee on the Budget of the Senate submits to the Director of the Congressional Budget Office the bill under clause (i)(I) and ending on the date on which the Chair receives the cost estimate under clause (i)(II).  (5)  Discharge  If the Committee on the Budget of the Senate has not reported a bill under paragraph (4) before the end of the 60-day period described in that paragraph, the Committee on the Budget of the Senate shall be automatically discharged from further consideration of—  (A)  the proposal introduced under paragraph (1), which shall be placed on the appropriate calendar; and  (B)  any proposal submitted under paragraph (3)(B), which shall be placed on the appropriate calendar.   (d)  Definition In this section and section 408, the term  required ratio  means the ratio that reduces by not less than 5 percentage points the projected ratio under current law of debt held by the public to Gross Domestic Product in the tenth fiscal year after the current fiscal year.
 408.  Consideration in the House of Representatives of alternative debt reduction proposals  (a)  Introduction  In the House of Representatives, any bill that satisfies the required ratio as determined by the Congressional Budget Office and does not contain any matter that is unrelated to debt reduction may be introduced by the majority leader, the minority leader, or by any other Member (if that Member’s proposed bill is cosponsored by at least 145 other Members or by at least 20 Members of the majority party and 20 Members of the minority party).  (b)  Referral to Committee on Rules  Any bill introduced under subsection (a) shall be referred to the Committee on Rules. Each such bill shall be scored by the Director of the Congressional Budget Office to determine if such bill satisfies the required ratio. If such bill achieves the required ratio, it shall be reported without amendment to the House for its consideration within 30 calendar days of the date of introduction of the bill.  (c)  Queen-of-the-Hill rule for consideration  In the House of Representatives, any bill described in section 407 and any bill reported under subsection (b) shall be considered in the House of Representatives pursuant to a special order of business if the text of the bill provides that the text of all such bills reported under subsection (b) may be offered as amendments in the nature of a substitute and if more than one such amendment is adopted then the one receiving the greater number of affirmative recorded votes shall be considered as finally adopted. 
 409.  Consideration on the floor of the Senate  (a)  In general  Notwithstanding Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order, not later than 5 days of session after the date on which a bill meeting the requirements of section 407(c)(4) is reported from the Committee on the Budget of the Senate or the date on which any proposal is placed on the calendar after discharge under section 407(c)(5), as applicable, for the majority leader of the Senate or a Member of the Senate designated by the majority leader of the Senate to move to proceed to the consideration of the bill. It shall also be in order, notwithstanding Rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, for any Member of the Senate to move to proceed to the consideration of the bill at any time after the conclusion of such 5-day period. A motion to proceed is in order even though a previous motion to the same effect has been disagreed to. All points of order against the motion to proceed to the bill are waived. The motion is not subject to a motion to postpone. A motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in order. Consideration of the motion to proceed shall be limited to not more than 10 hours equally divided between the majority leader and the minority leader or their designees. A motion to proceed shall require an affirmative vote of three-fifths of Senators duly chosen and sworn.  (b)  Extraneous provisions  (1)  In general  When the Senate is considering a bill under subsection (a), upon a point of order being made by any Senator against a extraneous material contained in the joint resolution, and the point of order is sustained by the Chair, the provision that contains the extraneous material shall be stricken from the joint resolution.   (2)  Extraneous material defined In this subsection, the term  extraneous material  means— (A)   a provision that does not produce a change in outlays or revenue, including changes in outlays and revenues brought about by changes in the terms and conditions under which outlays are made or revenues are required to be collected (but a provision in which outlay decreases or revenue increases exactly offset outlay increases or revenue decreases shall not be considered extraneous by virtue of this subparagraph); or  (B)  a provision producing changes in outlays or revenues which are merely incidental to the non-budgetary components of the provision.  (3)  Form of the point of order A point of order under paragraph (1) may be raised by a Senator as provided in section 313(e) of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974 ( 2 U.S.C. 644(e) ).
 410.  Consideration by other house  If a House of Congress receives a bill passed by the other House under section 408 or 409 and has not yet passed a bill under section 408 or 409, the following procedures for consideration shall apply:  (1)  Expedited consideration in the House of Representatives  (A)  Proceeding to consideration  (i)  In general  It shall be in order, not later than 30 days after the date on which the House of Representatives receives a bill passed by the Senate under section 409, to move to proceed to consider the bill in the House of Representatives.  (ii)  Procedure  For a motion to proceed to consider a bill under this subparagraph—  (I)  all points of order against the motion are waived;  (II)  such a motion shall not be in order after the House of Representatives has disposed of a motion to proceed on the bill;  (III)  the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the motion to its adoption without intervening motion;  (IV)  the motion shall not be debatable; and  (V)  a motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is disposed of shall not be in order.  (B)  Consideration  If the House of Representatives proceeds to consideration of a bill under this paragraph—  (i)  the bill shall be considered as read;  (ii)  all points of order against the bill and against its consideration are waived;  (iii)  the previous question shall be considered as ordered on the bill to its passage without intervening motion except three hours of debate equally divided and controlled by the proponent and an opponent;  (iv)  an amendment to the bill shall not be in order; and  (v)  a motion to reconsider the vote on passage of the bill shall not be in order.  (2)  Expedited consideration in the Senate  (A)  Proceeding to consideration  (i)  In general  Notwithstanding rule XXII of the Standing Rules of the Senate, it is in order, not later than 30 days after the date on which the Senate receives a bill passed under section 408 by the House of Representatives, to move to proceed to consider the bill in the Senate.  (ii)  Procedure  For a motion to proceed to the consideration of a bill under this paragraph—  (I)  all points of order against the motion are waived;  (II)  the motion is not debatable;  (III)  the motion is not subject to a motion to postpone;  (IV)  a motion to reconsider the vote by which the motion is agreed to or disagreed to shall not be in order; and  (V)  if the motion is agreed to, the bill shall remain the unfinished business until disposed of.  (B)  Floor consideration generally  If the Senate proceeds to consideration of a bill under this paragraph—  (i)  all points of order against the bill (and against consideration of the bill) are waived;  (ii)  consideration of the bill, and all debatable motions and appeals in connection therewith, shall be limited to not more than 20 hours, which shall be divided equally between the majority and minority leaders or their designees;  (iii)  a motion further to limit debate is in order and not debatable;  (iv)  an amendment to, a motion to postpone, or a motion to recommit the bill is not in order; and  (v)  a motion to proceed to the consideration of other business is not in order.  (C)  Vote on passage  The vote on passage of a bill under this paragraph shall occur immediately following the conclusion of the consideration of the bill, and a single quorum call at the conclusion of the debate if requested in accordance with the rules of the Senate, and shall require an affirmative vote of three-fifths of the Members of the Senate duly chosen and sworn.  (3)  Conferences  If the Senate and the House of Representatives have both passed the bill in different forms, then a conference committee on the bill shall be considered as ordered and the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the majority leader of the Senate shall immediately appoint Managers to such conference committee to resolve any disagreement between the Houses. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of contents in section 1(b) of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 406 the following:  Sec. 407. Consideration of the debt reduction proposal submitted by the President.   Sec. 408. Consideration in the House of Representatives of alternative debt reduction proposals.   Sec. 409. Consideration on the floor of the Senate.   Sec. 410. Consideration by other house.  . 
