 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protecting Our Wealth of Energy Resources Act  or the  POWER Act . 
 2.  Prohibition on moratoria of new energy leases on certain Federal land and on withdrawal of Federal land from energy development  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Critical mineral The term  critical mineral  means any mineral included on the list of critical minerals published in the notice of the Secretary of the Interior entitled  Final List of Critical Minerals 2018  (83 Fed. Reg. 23295 (May 18, 2018)).  (2)  Federal land  (A)  In general The term  Federal land  means— (i)  National Forest System land;  (ii) public lands (as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ( 43 U.S.C. 1702 )); (iii) the outer Continental Shelf (as defined in section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1331 )); and (iv)  land managed by the Secretary of Energy.  (B)  Inclusion The term  Federal land  includes land described in clauses (i) through (iv) of subparagraph (A) for which the rights to the surface estate or subsurface estate are owned by a non-Federal entity. (3)  President The term  President  means the President or any designee, including— (A)  the Secretary of Agriculture;  (B)  the Secretary of Energy; and  (C)  the Secretary of the Interior.  (b)  Prohibitions  (1)  In general  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President shall not carry out any action that would prohibit or substantially delay the issuance of any of the following on Federal land, unless such an action has been authorized by an Act of Congress:  (A)  New oil and gas leases, drill permits, approvals, or authorizations.  (B)  New coal leases, permits, approvals, or authorizations.  (C)  New hard rock leases, permits, approvals, or authorizations.  (D)  New critical minerals leases, permits, approvals, or authorizations.  (2)  Prohibition on withdrawal  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President shall not withdraw any Federal land from forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under the public land laws, location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, or disposition under laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral materials unless the withdrawal has been authorized by an Act of Congress. 
