 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Finish the Wall Act .
 2.  Border wall system construction  (a)  (1)  Immediately resume border wall system construction Not later than 24 hours after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall resume all activities related to the construction of the border barrier system (also known as, and referred to in this Act as, the  border wall system ) along the international border between the United States and Mexico that were underway or being planned for prior to January 20, 2021. (2)  No cancellations  The Secretary of Homeland Security may not cancel any contract for activities related to border wall system construction referred to in paragraph (1) that was entered into on or before January 20, 2021.  (3)  Use of funds  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall expend all funds appropriated or explicitly obligated for border wall system construction referred to in paragraph (1) that were appropriated or obligated, as the case may be, beginning on October 1, 2016, to carry out this Act.  (4)  Implementation plan for border wall system  Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an implementation plan to complete, by not later than September 30, 2024, border wall system construction referred to in paragraph (1) and funded in accordance with paragraph (3).  (b)  Plan To complete tactical infrastructure and technology elements of border wall system  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees an implementation plan, including quarterly benchmarks and cost estimates, for satisfying all requirements of border wall system construction referred to in subsection (a)(1), including tactical infrastructure, technology, and other elements as identified by the Department of Homeland Security prior to January 20, 2021, through the expenditure of funds appropriated or explicitly obligated, as the case may be, for use beginning on October 1, 2016, as well as any future funds appropriated by Congress.  (c)  Uphold negotiated agreements  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure that all agreements executed in writing between the Department of Homeland Security and private citizens, State, local, and Tribal governments, and other stakeholders are honored by the Department relating to current and future border wall system construction as required by such agreements. 
 3.  DNA collection consistent with Federal law  Not later than 14 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall ensure and certify to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate that U.S. Customs and Border Protection is fully compliant with the DNA Fingerprint Act of 2005 at all border facilities that process adults, including as part of a family unit, in the custody of U.S. Customs and Border Protection at the border. 
 4.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Appropriate congressional committees The term  appropriate congressional committees  means the Committee on Homeland Security and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate. (2)  Tactical infrastructure The term  tactical infrastructure  includes boat ramps, access gates, checkpoints, lighting, and roads associated with a border wall system. (3)  Technology The term  technology  includes border surveillance and detection technology, including linear ground detection systems, associated with a border wall system.
