 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Strengthening Relations in Military Communities Act of 2021 .
 2.  Program to improve relations between members of the Armed Forces and military communities  (a)  In general  Chapter 23  of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 481a  the following new section: 481b.  Program to improve relations between members of the Armed Forces and military communities  (a)  Survey  (1)  The Secretary of Defense, acting through the Office of Diversity Management and Equal Opportunity, shall conduct a biennial survey of covered individuals regarding relations between covered individuals and covered communities.  (2)  The survey shall be conducted to solicit information from covered individuals regarding the following:  (A)  Rank, age, racial, ethnic, and gender demographics of the covered individuals.  (B)  Relationships of covered individuals with the covered community, including support services and acceptance of the military community.  (C)  Availability of housing, employment opportunities for military spouses, health care, education, and other relevant issues.  (D)  Initiatives of local government and community organizations in addressing diversity, equity, and inclusion.  (E)  Physical safety while in a covered community but outside the military installation located in such covered community.  (F)  Any other matters designated by the Secretary of Defense.  (b)  Additional activities  Additional activities under this section may include the following:  (1)  Facilitating local listening sessions and information exchanges.  (2)  Developing educational campaigns.  (3)  Supplementing existing local and national defense community programs.  (4)  Sharing best practices and activities.  (c)  Coordination  To support activities under this section, the Secretary of Defense may coordinate with local governments or not-for-profit organizations that represent covered individuals.  (d)  Report  (1)  Not later than September 30 of every other year, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report on the most recent survey under subsection (a).  (2)  Each report under paragraph (1) shall include—  (A)  with respect to each covered community—  (i)  the results of the survey required under subsection (b); and  (ii)  activities conducted to address racial inequity in the community;  (B)  aggregate results of the survey required under subsection (b); and  (C)  best practices for creating positive relationships between covered individuals and covered communities.  (3)  The Secretary of Defense shall—  (A)  designate ten geographically diverse military installations for review in each survey;  (B)  make the results of each report under paragraph (1) available on a publicly accessible website of the Department of Defense; and  (C)  ensure that any data included with the report is made available in a machine-readable format that is downloadable, searchable, and sortable.  (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  covered community  means a military installation designated under subsection (e)(3)(A) and the area within 10 miles of such military installation. (2) The term  covered individual  means any of the following who lives in a covered community or works on a military installation in a covered community: (A)  A member of the Armed Forces.  (B)  A family member of an individual described in subparagraph (A) or (B).  (3) The term  military installation  has the meaning given such term in section 2801 of this title.
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of such chapter is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 481a the following new item:   481b. Program to improve relations between members of the Armed Forces and military communities.  .  (c)  Implementation  The Secretary of Defense shall carry out the first survey under section 481b(a) of such title, as added by subsection (a), not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
