 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Federal Broadband Deployment Tracking Act .
 2. Report on tracking Form  299  requests (a)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Assistant Secretary shall submit to the appropriate committees of Congress a report containing the elements described in subsection (b).  (b)  Elements described  The elements described in this subsection are the following:  (1)  A plan describing how the Assistant Secretary will track the acceptance, processing, and disposal of a Form 299 submitted to the Secretary concerned by a requesting party.  (2)  A description of how the Assistant Secretary would most expeditiously implement the plan described in paragraph (1).  (3)  A description of how the Assistant Secretary may increase transparency to a requesting party on the status of a Form 299 received by the Secretary concerned.  (4)  A description of any barriers the Assistant Secretary determines could delay the implementation of the plan described in paragraph (1).  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Appropriate committees of Congress The term  appropriate committees of Congress  means— (A)  the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives; and  (B)  the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.  (2)  Assistant Secretary The term  Assistant Secretary  means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information. (3)  Form 299 The term  Form 299  means the form developed pursuant to section 6409(b)(2)(A) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 ( 47 U.S.C. 1455(b)(2)(A) ), or any successor form. (4)  National forest system The term  National Forest System  has the meaning given the term in section 11(a) of the Forest and Rangeland Renewable Resources Planning Act of 1974 ( 16 U.S.C. 1609(a) ). (5)  Public land The term  public land  means land under the management of— (A)  the Bureau of Land Management;  (B)  the National Park Service;  (C)  the United States Fish and Wildlife Service; or  (D)  the Bureau of Reclamation.  (6)  Secretary concerned The term  Secretary concerned  means— (A)  the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to public land; and  (B)  the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to National Forest System land.  
