 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Community Navigator Reporting Act of 2021 .
 2.  Community Navigator reporting  (a)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate and the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives a report on the performance and effectiveness of the Community Navigator pilot program, which may be included as part of another report submitted to such Committees by the Administrator, and which shall include—  (1)  the number of recipients of grants under the Community Navigator pilot program;  (2)  for each such recipient—  (A)  the dollar amount of each such grant the received;  (B)  the aggregate dollar amount of all such grants received; and  (C)  the location of such recipient, including the State and county; and   (3)  to the extent practicable, the number of unique businesses for which an owner has received community navigator services from a Program participant under the Community Navigator pilot program, disaggregated by industry, including but not limited to—  (A)  accommodation and food services;  (B)  agriculture, forestry, fishing, and hunting;  (C)  arts, entertainment, and recreation;  (D)  construction;  (E)  educational services;  (F)  healthcare;  (G)  manufacturing;  (H)  professional, scientific, and technical services;  (I)  retail trade;  (J)  transportation; and  (K)  wholesale trade.  (b)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 definitions Except as provided in this subsection, the terms in this Act have the meaning given such terms under section 5004 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 ( Public Law 117–2 ). (2)  Community Navigator pilot program The term  Community Navigator pilot program  means the program established under section 5004 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 ( Public Law 117–2 ). (3)  Community navigator services The term  community navigator services  means the covered services provided by community navigators that target eligible businesses. (4)  Community navigator The term  community navigator  means a community organization, community financial institution as defined in section 7(a)(36)(A) of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 636(a)(36)(A) ), or other private nonprofit organization engaged in the delivery of covered services. (5)  Covered services The term  covered services  means the outreach, education, and technical assistance provided to increase awareness of, and participation in, programs of the Small Business Administration. (6)  Program participants The term  Program participants  means community navigators that have received a grant from, or entered into a contract or cooperative agreement with, the Administrator for the purposes of the Community Navigator pilot program.
