
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Sport Fish Restoration, Recreational Boating Safety, and Wildlife Restoration Act of 2021 .
  2.  Division of annual appropriations   (a)  In general Section 4 of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act ( 16 U.S.C. 777c ) is amended—
 (1) in subsection (a), by striking  2021  and inserting  2025 ;   (2)  in subsection (b)— 
 (A)  in paragraph (1)—   (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking  2021  and inserting  2025 ; and
 (ii)  by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows—    (B)  Available amounts  The available amount referred to in subparagraph (A) is— 
 (i)  for fiscal year 2022, $12,786,434, adjusted for inflation as described in clause (ii)(II)(bb); and   (ii)  for fiscal year 2023 and each fiscal year thereafter, the sum of— 
 (I)  the available amount for the preceding fiscal year; and   (II)  the amount determined by multiplying— 
 (aa)  the available amount for the preceding fiscal year; and   (bb)  the change, relative to the preceding fiscal year, in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Department of Labor.  ; and 
 (B)  in paragraph (2)—   (i) in subparagraph (A), by striking  2016 through 2021  and inserting  2022 through 2025 ; and
 (ii)  by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows—    (B)  Available amounts  The available amount referred to in subparagraph (A) is— 
 (i)  for fiscal year 2021, $8,988,700; and   (ii)  for fiscal year 2022 and each fiscal year thereafter, the sum of— 
 (I)  the available amount for the preceding fiscal year; and   (II)  the amount determined by multiplying— 
 (aa)  the available amount for the preceding fiscal year; and   (bb)  the change, relative to the preceding fiscal year, in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Department of Labor.  ; and 
 (3) in subsection (e)(2), by striking  $900,000  and inserting  $1,300,000 .  (b)  Administration Section 9(a) of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act ( 16 U.S.C. 777h(a) ) is amended—
 (1)  in paragraph (1)—   (A) by striking  on a full-time basis ; and
 (B) by inserting  for work hours the employee spends directly administering this Act, as such hours are certified by the supervisor of the employee  after  administer this Act ;   (2)  by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraphs (3) through (12) as paragraphs (2) through (11), respectively; 
 (3) by striking  paragraphs (1) and (2)  and inserting  paragraph (1)  each place it appears;  (4) in paragraph (7), as so redesignated, by striking  full-time ; 
 (5) in paragraph (8)(A), as so redesignated, by striking  on a full-time basis ;  (6) in paragraph (9), as so redesignated, by striking  on a full-time basis ; and
 (7)  in paragraph (10), as so redesignated—   (A) by inserting  or a part-time basis  after  on a full-time basis ; and
 (B) by inserting  provided that the percentage of relocation expenses paid with funds under this chapter do not exceed the percentage of work hours the employee spends administering this Act  after  at which the relocation expenses are incurred .   (c)  Other activities Section 14(e) of the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act ( 16 U.S.C. 777m(e) ) is amended by adding at the end the following:

 (3)  A portion, as determined by the Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership Council, of funds disbursed for the purposes described in paragraph (2) but remaining unobligated prior to fiscal year 2020 shall be used to study—   (A)  the impact of derelict recreational vessels on recreational boating safety and recreational fishing; and 
 (B)  identify options and methods for recycling for recreational vessels.  . 
  3.  Recreational boating access   (a)  In general  The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study on recreational boating access. In carrying out such study, the Comptroller General shall consult with the Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership Council and the National Boating Safety Advisory Council on the design, scope, and priorities of such study. 
 (b)  Contents  To the extent practicable, the study required under subsection (a) shall contain a description of—   (1)  the use of nonmotorized vessels in each State and how the increased use of nonmotorized vessels is impacting motorized and nonmotorized vessel access to waterway entry points; 
 (2)  recreational fishing and boating user conflicts concerning motorized and nonmotorized vessels at waterway access points; and   (3) the use of funds provided under the Dingell-Johnson Sport Fish Restoration Act ( 16 U.S.C. 777 et seq. ) for—
 (A)  the sport fish restoration program to improve nonmotorized vessel access at waterway entry points and the reasons for providing such access; and   (B)  the Recreational Boating Safety Program funds for nonmotorized boating safety programs. 
 (c)  Report  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership Council, the Committees on Natural Resources and Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives, and the Committees on Commerce, Science, and Transportation and Environment and Public Works of the Senate a report containing the study required under this section.   (d)  State defined In this section, the term  State  means any State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealths of Puerto Rico and the Northern Mariana Islands, and the territories of Guam, the U.S. Virgin Islands, and American Samoa.

 4.  Wildlife Restoration Fund administration 
 (a)  Allocation and apportionment of available amounts Section 4 of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act ( 16 U.S.C. 669c ), is amended—  (1)  in subsection (a)(1)(B)— 
 (A) in clause (i) by striking  for each of fiscal years 2001 and 2002, $9,000,000;  and inserting the following:  for fiscal year 2022, $12,786,434, adjusted for inflation as described in clause (ii)(II)(bb);   ; and  
 (B)  by striking clauses (ii) and (iii) and inserting the following:     (ii)  for fiscal year 2023, and each fiscal year thereafter, the sum of— 
 (I)  the available amount for the preceding fiscal year; and   (II)  the amount determined by multiplying— 
 (aa)  the available amount for the preceding fiscal year; and    (bb)  the change, relative to the preceding fiscal year, in the Consumer Price Index for All Urban Consumers published by the Department of Labor.  ; and  
 (2) in subsection (a)(2)(A) by striking  the end of the fiscal year  and inserting  the end of the subsequent fiscal year .  (b)  Authorized Expenses for Administration Section 9(a) of the Pittman-Robertson Wildlife Restoration Act ( 16 U.S.C. 669h(a) ) is amended—
 (1)  in paragraph (1)—   (A) by striking  on a full-time basis ; and
 (B) by inserting  for the work hours the employee spends directly administering this Act, as such hours are certified by the supervisor of the employee  after  administer this Act ;  (2) by striking  paragraphs (1) and (2)  and inserting  paragraph (1)  each place it appears; 
 (3)  by striking paragraph (2) and redesignating paragraphs (3) through (12) as paragraphs (2) through (11), respectively;   (4) in paragraph (7), as so redesignated, by striking  full-time ;
 (5) in paragraph (8)(A), as so redesignated, by striking  on a full-time basis ;  (6) in paragraph (9), as so redesignated, by striking  on a full-time basis ; and 
 (7)  in paragraph (10), as so redesignated—   (A) by inserting  or a part-time basis  after  on a full-time basis ; and
 (B) by inserting  , provided that the percentage of relocation expenses paid with funds under this chapter do not exceed the percentage of work hours the employee spends administering this Act  after  at which the relocation expenses are incurred .
  5.  Sport fish restoration and boating trust fund Section 13107(c)(2) of title 46, United States Code, is amended by striking  No funds available  and inserting  On or after October 1, 2023 no funds available, .

 6.  Sport fishing and boating partnership council  The Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership Council established by the Secretary of the Interior shall be a Federal advisory committee of both the Department of the Interior and the Department of Commerce, and the secretaries of Interior and Commerce shall jointly carry out the requirements of the Federal Advisory Committee Act with respect to the Sport Fishing and Boating Partnership Council.  
 