 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Regional Impact of Disasters and Emergencies Relief Act  or the  RIDER Act .
 2.  Contiguous area Title IV of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5170 et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following: 431.  Contiguous area  (a)  In general  Any area under the jurisdiction of a State or local government that is contiguous to an area that the President designates as eligible to receive any form of covered assistance as a result of a major disaster may be deemed by the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency to be eligible to receive such assistance with respect to such disaster.  (b)  Definition In this section, the term  covered assistance  means— (1)  hazard mitigation assistance provided under section 404;   (2)  any assistance provided to an individual or household under sections 408, 410, 415, 416, or 426; and  (3)  any public assistance provided under sections 403, 406, or 407. 
 . 
 3.  Cumulative damage  (a)  Definitions Section 102(2) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5122(2) ) is amended— (1) by striking  Major disaster  means and inserting (A)  In general.— The term  major disaster  means ; and  (2)  by adding at the end the following:  (B)  Inclusion The term  major disaster  includes more than 1 natural catastrophe, fire, flood, or explosion described in subparagraph (A) that occurs in a 12-month period and that individually does not cause damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant major disaster assistance under this Act, but that, in the determination of the President, cumulatively causes damage of sufficient severity and magnitude to warrant such assistance.  .  (b)  Interim guidance  Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency shall issue interim guidance to implement the amendments made by subsection (a).  (c)  Rulemaking  Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the President, acting through the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency, shall issue such rules and regulations as are necessary to—  (1) ensure compliance with section 1232 of the FAA Reauthorization Act of 2018 ( Public Law 115–254 ); and (2)  implement the amendments made by subsection (a). 
