 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Accelerating Carbon Capture and Extending Secure Storage through 45Q Act  or as the  ACCESS 45Q Act .
 2.  Extension of credit for carbon oxide sequestration  Section 45Q(d)(1)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  January 1, 2026  and inserting  January 1, 2036 .
 3.  Elective payment for carbon oxide sequestration  (a)  In general Subchapter B of  chapter 65  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 6431.  Elective payment for carbon oxide sequestration  (a)  In general  In the case of a taxpayer making an election (at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may provide) under this section with respect to any portion of a carbon oxide sequestration credit which would (without regard to this section) be determined under section 45Q with respect to such taxpayer, such taxpayer shall be treated as making a payment against the tax imposed by subtitle A for the taxable year equal to the amount of such portion.  (b)  Limitation  The portion of a carbon oxide sequestration credit with respect to which a taxpayer may make an election under this section shall not exceed the portion of such credit which is attributable to property originally placed in service after the date of the enactment of this section.  (c)  Timing  The payment described in subsection (a) shall be treated as made on the later of the due date of the return of tax for such taxable year or the date on which such return is filed.  (d)  Exclusion from gross income  Gross income of the taxpayer shall be determined without regard to this section.  (e)  Denial of double benefit  Solely for purposes of section 38, in the case of a taxpayer making an election under this section, the carbon oxide sequestration credit determined under section 45Q shall be reduced by the amount of the portion of such credit with respect to which the taxpayer makes such election.  (f)  Special rules  (1)  In the case of a taxpayer making an election under this subsection, the credit subject to such an election shall be determined notwithstanding—  (A)  section 50(b)(3); and  (B)  section 50(b)(4) for an entity described in 50(b)(4)(A)(i).  (2)  In the case of a mutual or cooperative electric company described in this paragraph or an organization described in section 1381(a)(2), any income received or accrued in connection with the credit under this section shall be treated as an amount collected from members for the sole purpose of meeting losses and expenses. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections for subchapter B of chapter 65 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new item:  Sec. 6431. Elective payment for carbon oxide sequestration.  .  (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to credits determined for taxable years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 4.  Allowance of the carbon oxide sequestration credit against the base erosion minimum tax  (a)  In general  Section 59A(b)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended— (1) by inserting  and the carbon dioxide sequestration credit determined under section 45Q  after  section 41(a)  in paragraph (1)(B)(ii)(I), and (2) by inserting  (other than the credit allowed under section 38 for the taxable year which is properly allocable to the credit for carbon oxide sequestration determined under section 45Q)  after  credits allowed under this chapter . (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall take effect as if included in section 41119 of the Bipartisan Budget Act of 2018. 
