 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  TRICARE Equality Act of 2021 .
 2.  Improvements relating to administration of TRICARE program in Puerto Rico  (a)  Improvements  Chapter 55  of title 10, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 1076f  the following new section (and conforming the table of sections at the beginning of such chapter accordingly):  1076g.  TRICARE program: administration in Puerto Rico  (a)  Availability of TRICARE Prime  In designating geographical areas under section 1097(b)(3) of this title, the Secretary of Defense shall designate such areas in Puerto Rico in a similar manner used to designate such areas in the 50 States.  (b)  Expansion of travel benefits  (1)  In providing travel and transportation allowances under section 1074i of this title, the Secretary of Defense shall ensure that individuals located in Puerto Rico who, but for such location, would be eligible to receive such allowances pursuant to such section are eligible to receive such allowances.  (2)  The Secretary may revise the regulations prescribed under section 464 of title 37, or prescribe such new regulations, as may be necessary for the administration of paragraph (1).  (c)  Health information exchange  The Director of the Federal Electronic Health Record Modernization Office shall coordinate with the Director of the Department of Health of Puerto Rico for the purpose of sharing health information through the Joint Health Information Exchange, or such successor initiative.  (d)  Federal Electronic Health Record Modernization Office In this section, the term  Federal Electronic Health Record Modernization Office  means the Office established under section 1635(b) of the Wounded Warrior Act (title XVI of  Public Law 110–181 ;  10 U.S.C. 1071  note). 
 .  (b)  Sunset  Section 1076g of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall be repealed on the date that is two years after the date on which Puerto Rico is declared to be a State of the United States of America and is admitted to the Union on equal footing with the other States in all respects. 
