 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Taliban Rare Earth Minerals Sanctions Act .
 2.  Imposition of sanctions on persons engaging in transactions in Afghanistan rare earth minerals  (a)  In general  On and after the date that is 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall impose the sanctions described in subsection (d) with respect to a foreign person the President determines knowingly, on or after such date of enactment, engages in a significant transaction with a person that is part of, or operates for or on behalf of, the rare earth mineral sector of Afghanistan.  (b)  Exception relating to importation of goods  (1)  In general  Notwithstanding subsection (a), the authorities and requirements to impose sanctions under subsection (a) shall not include the authority or a requirement to impose sanctions on the importation of goods.  (2)  Good defined In this subsection, the term  good  means any article, natural or man-made substance, material, supply or manufactured product, including inspection and test equipment, and excluding technical data. (c)  Penalties A person that violates, attempts to violate, conspires to violate, or causes a violation of subsection (a) or any regulation, license, or order issued to carry out subsection (a) shall be subject to the penalties set forth in subsections (b) and (c) of section 206 of the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ( 50 U.S.C. 1705 ) to the same extent as a person that commits an unlawful act described in subsection (a) of that section. (d)  Sanctions described  The sanctions to be imposed on a foreign person described in subsection (a) are the following:  (1)  Blocking of property The President shall block, in accordance with the International Emergency Economic Powers Act ( 50 U.S.C. 1701 et seq. ), all transactions in all property and interests in property of any person subject to subsection (a) if such property and interests in property are in the United States, come within the United States, or are or come within the possession or control of a United States person. (2)  Exclusion from United States  The Secretary of State shall deny a visa to, and the Secretary of Homeland Security shall exclude from the United States, any person subject to subsection (a) that is an alien. 
