 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Having Employees Return to Duty Act  or the  HERD Act .
 2.  Executive Order 14043  (a)  Definitions  In this section—  (1) the terms  agency  and  employee  have the meanings given the terms in section 3 of the Executive Order, except that the term  agency  does not include the Department of Defense; (2) the term  covered employee  means an employee who has complied with the requirements of the Executive Order; and (3) the term  Executive Order  means Executive Order 14043 (86 Fed. Reg. 50989; relating to requiring Coronavirus Disease 2019 vaccination for Federal employees). (b)  Requirement  (1)  In general  Subject to paragraph (2), beginning on the date that is 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the head of each agency shall, with respect to each covered employee employed by the agency, require the covered employee to work from the duty station of the covered employee, and to work the hours worked by the covered employee, as of February 15, 2020.  (2)  Exemptions  (A)  Newly hired employees  If a covered employee was not employed by the applicable agency as of February 15, 2020, the requirements under paragraph (1) shall apply to the covered employee with respect to the duty station and hours of the individual who occupied the position of the covered employee, as of that date.  (B)  Significant community spread  The head of an agency may implement different policies than, or supplemental policies to, the requirements under paragraph (1), including by requiring social distancing at a particular worksite, if the agency head finds that—  (i)  there is substantial transmission of COVID–19 within a community in which the requirements of that paragraph would otherwise be carried out, as determined by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention; and  (ii)  implementing those different or supplemental policies will not degrade the level of service that the agency provides to the public.  (C)  Immunocompromised employee  No covered employee that is immunocompromised shall be required to be physically present at a duty station under the requirements under paragraph (1). 
