
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Addressing Social Isolation and Loneliness in Older Adults Act of 2021  or the  Addressing SILO Act of 2021 .
  2.  Incentives for developing and sustaining structural competency in providing health and human services  Part II of subtitle B of title XX of the Social Security Act (42 U.S.C. 1397m–1397m-5) is amended by adding at the end the following: 

 2047.  Incentives for developing and sustaining structural competency in providing health and human services 
 (a)  Grants and training To support area agencies on aging or other community-Based organizations To address social isolation among vulnerable older adults and people with disabilities 
 (1)  Grants  The Secretary shall make grants to eligible area agencies on aging or other community-based organizations for the purpose of—   (A)  conducting outreach to individuals at risk for, or already experiencing, social isolation or loneliness, through established screening tools or other methods identified by the Secretary; 
 (B)  developing community-based interventions for the purposes of mitigating loneliness or social isolation (including evidence-based programs, as defined by the Secretary, developed with multi-stakeholder input for the purposes of promoting social connection, mitigating social isolation or loneliness, or preventing social isolation or loneliness) among at-risk individuals;   (C)  connecting at-risk individuals with community social and clinical supports; and 
 (D)  evaluating the effect of programs developed and implemented under subparagraphs (B) and (C).   (2)  Training  The Secretary shall establish programs to provide and improve training for area agencies on aging or community-based organizations with respect to addressing and preventing social isolation and loneliness among older adults and people with disabilities. 
 (3)  Evaluation  Not later than 3 years after the date of the enactment of this section and every 3 years thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to the Congress a written report which assesses the extent to which the programs established under this subsection address social isolation and loneliness among older adults and people with disabilities.   (4)  Appropriation  Out of any money in the Treasury not otherwise appropriated, there are appropriated to the Secretary $62,500,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2025 to carry out this subsection. 
 (5)  Coordination The Secretary shall coordinate with resource centers, grant programs, or other funding mechanisms established under section 411(a)(18) of the Older Americans Act ( 42 U.S.C. 3032(a)(18) ), section 417(a)(1) of such Act ( 42 U.S.C. 3032F(a)(1) ), or other programs as determined by the Secretary.  (b)  Definitions  In this section: 
 (1)  Area agency on aging The term  area agency on aging  means an area agency on aging designated under section 305 of the Older Americans Act of 1965.  (2)  Social isolation The term  social isolation  means objectively being alone, or having few relationships or infrequent social contact.
 (3)  Loneliness The term  loneliness  means subjectively feeling alone, or the discrepancy between one’s desired level of social connection and one’s actual level of social connection.  (4)  Social connection The term  social connection  means the variety of ways one can connect to others socially, through physical, behavioral, social-cognitive, and emotional channels.
 (5)  Community-based organization The term  community-based organization  includes, except as otherwise provided by the Secretary, a nonprofit community-based organization, a consortium of nonprofit community-based organizations, a national nonprofit organization acting as an intermediary for a community-based organization, or a community-based organization that has a fiscal sponsor that allows the organization to function as an organization described in  section 501(c)(3)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from taxation under section 501(a) of such Code.
 . 
 