 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Veterans Education is Timeless Act of 2021 .
 2.  Elimination of delimiting dates under Department of Veterans Affairs educational assistance programs  (a)  All volunteer force educational assistance program  (1)  In general  Section 3031 of title 38, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:  3031.  No time limitation for use of eligibility and entitlement  Educational assistance benefits shall be afforded an eligible veteran under this chapter at any time and are not subject to any delimiting date. 
 .  (2)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 30 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 3031 and inserting the following new item:  3031. No time limitation for use of eligibility and entitlement.  .  (b)  Post-Vietnam educational assistance program  Section 3232 of title 38, United States Code, is amended—  (1)  by striking subsections (a) and (b); and  (2)  by inserting the following new subsections (a) and (b):  (a)  Educational assistance benefits shall be afforded an eligible veteran under this chapter at any time and are not subject to any delimiting date.  (b)  The Secretary shall refund to a veteran any contributions made by the veteran if the veteran applies for such refund.  .  (c)  Post-9/11 educational assistance program  (1)  In general  Section 3321 of such title is amended to read as follows:  3321.  No time limitation for use of eligibility and entitlement  Educational assistance benefits shall be afforded an eligible person under this chapter at any time and are not subject to any delimiting date. 
 .  (2)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 33 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 3321 and inserting the following new item:  3321. No time limitation for use of eligibility and entitlement.  .  (d)  Fry scholarship  Paragraph (2) of subsection (f) of section 3311 of such title is amended to read as follows:  (2)  No time limitation  The entitlement of an individual to assistance under subsection (a) pursuant to paragraphs (8), (9), and (10) of subsection (b) shall not expire and shall not be subject to any delimiting date.  .  (e)  Survivors’ and dependents’ educational assistance program  (1)  In general  Section 3512 of such title is amended to read as follows:  3512.  No time limitation for use of eligibility and entitlement  Educational assistance benefits shall be afforded an eligible person under this chapter at any time and are not subject to any delimiting date. 
 .  (2)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 35 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 3512 and inserting the following new item:  3512. No time limitation for use of eligibility and entitlement.  .  (f)  Retroactive applicability  The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply with respect to any person who is or was entitled to educational assistance before, on, or after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
