 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Building Rural Investments, Development, and Growth for the Economy Act  or the  BRIDGE Act .
 2.  Findings relating to attracting business investment and export promotion  Congress finds the following:  (1)  Business investment in the United States by both domestic and foreign firms, whether in the form of new equipment or facilities or the expansion of existing facilities, is a major engine of economic growth and job creation. Increasing exports from and investment in rural areas will expand the United States economy and create United States jobs.  (2)  Rural areas often have greater challenges in attracting business investment, especially because rural areas do not always have economic development organizations to advance their local economic interests. When a rural area does have a local economic development organization, it may not have the capacity or funding to compete effectively with larger rivals worldwide.  (3)  Due to their geographic location, rural United States businesses often have limited access to information and services that facilitate export success.  
 3.  Promotion of exports of goods and services from and facilitation of business investment in rural areas of the United States The Export Enhancement Act of 1988 ( 15 U.S.C. 4701  note) is amended by inserting after section 2306 the following new section:  2306A.  Promotion of exports of goods and services from and facilitation of business investment in rural areas of the United States  (a)  In general  The Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of State shall promote the export of goods and services from rural areas of the United States, particularly by small businesses and medium-sized businesses, and shall facilitate business investment in the United States, particularly in rural areas.  (b)  Relationship to Championing American Business Through Diplomacy Act The Secretary of Commerce and the Secretary of State shall carry out subsection (a) in a manner consistent with the purposes of the Championing American Business Through Diplomacy Act ( 22 U.S.C. 9901  et seq.). (c)  Rural area defined In this section the term  rural area  means an area with a population of less than 50,000 inhabitants that is outside an urbanized area, as determined by the most recent decennial census. 
 . 
