 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  No Corrupt Racist Training Act  or the  No CRT Act .
 2.  Opportunity grant program  (a)  In general The Secretary shall establish a grant program (to be known as the  Opportunity Grant Program ) to make grants to parents of eligible students for the purposes described in subsection (d). (b)  Application  (1)  In general  To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, a parent of an eligible student shall submit to the Secretary an application demonstrating—  (A)  the household income of such eligible student; and  (B)  with respect to school year 2021–2022, that the local educational agency serving such eligible student teaches or advances any of the following through curriculum or other activities:  (i)  Any race is inherently superior or inferior to any other race.  (ii)  The United States is a fundamentally racist country.  (iii)  The Declaration of Independence or the United States Constitution are fundamentally racist documents.  (iv)  An individual’s moral worth is determined by his or her race.  (v)  An individual, by virtue of his or her race, is inherently racist or oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously.  (vi)  An individual, because of his or her race, bears responsibility for the actions committed by members of his or her race.  (2)  Other requirements  The Secretary shall accept applications under paragraph (1) on an annual rolling basis and make such application available as a standardized form in electronic and written format.  (c)  Amount of grants  Subject to the availability of appropriations, each parent of an eligible student who the Secretary determines qualifies for a grant under this section shall receive a grant under this section in an amount that—  (1)  in the case of an eligible student with a household income less than or equal to 100 percent of the reduced price lunch rate income, is equal to 100 percent of the per-pupil funding with respect to the local educational agency serving such eligible student, as determined by the Secretary;  (2)  in the case of an eligible student with a household income greater than 100 percent but less than or equal to 150 percent of the reduced price lunch rate income, is equal to 90 percent of the per-pupil funding with respect to the local educational agency serving such eligible student, as determined by the Secretary;  (3)  in the case of an eligible student with a household income greater than 150 percent but less than or equal to 200 percent of the reduced price lunch rate income, is equal to 80 percent of the per-pupil funding with respect to the local educational agency serving such eligible student, as determined by the Secretary; and  (4)  in the case of an eligible student with a household income greater than 200 percent but less than or equal to 250 percent of the reduced price lunch rate income, is equal to 70 percent of the per-pupil funding with respect to the local educational agency serving such eligible student, as determined by the Secretary.  (d)  Use of funds  Any amounts made available to a parent under this section may be used—  (1)  with respect to an eligible student, to pay the tuition and fees for a private elementary school or a private secondary school;  (2)  for private tutoring (including through a learning pod or microschool);  (3)  for the home school expenses of such eligible student;  (4)  to purchase educational materials, including instruction materials and textbooks for such eligible student;  (5)  for purchasing electronic devices to facilitate the education of such eligible student; or  (6)  for such other purposes as the Secretary determines appropriate.  (e)  Rules of construction  Nothing in this section shall be construed to—  (1)  impact any aspect of private, religious, or home education providers;  (2)  exclude private, religious, or home education providers from receiving funds pursuant to a grant under this section; or  (3)  require a qualified educational service provider to alter any creed, practice, admissions policy, or curriculum in order to receive funds pursuant to a grant under this section.  (f)  Renewal  (1)  In general  The Secretary shall renew opportunity grants for parents of eligible students with an approved application under paragraph (2).  (2)  Application  To be eligible to receive a renewal under this subsection, a parent of an eligible student shall submit to the Secretary an application demonstrating the information described in subsection (b)(1).  (3)  Adjustment  The Secretary shall adjust the grant amount to account for any change in household income of the eligible student but may not provide less than the amount described in subsection (c)(4).  (g)  Funding  From any amounts appropriated under title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act, the Secretary shall use 10 percent of such amounts to carry out this section and award opportunity grants to parents with approved applications in accordance with this section.  (h)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Eligible student The term  eligible student  means a student— (A)  served by a local educational agency that teaches or advances any of the following through curriculum or other activities:  (i)  Any race is inherently superior or inferior to any other race.  (ii)  The United States is a fundamentally racist country.  (iii)  The Declaration of Independence or the United States Constitution are fundamentally racist documents.  (iv)  An individual’s moral worth is determined by his or her race.  (v)  An individual, by virtue of his or her race, is inherently racist or oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously.  (vi)  An individual, because of his or her race, bears responsibility for the actions committed by members of his or her race.  (B)  From a household with a household income that is less than 250 percent of the reduced price lunch rate income.  (2)  ESEA terms The terms  local educational agency ,  parent , and  Secretary  have the meanings given such terms in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 ). (3)  Household income The term  household income  has the meaning given such term in  section 36B(d)(2)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 ( 26 U.S.C. 36B(d)(2) ). (4)  Reduced price lunch rate income The term  reduced price lunch rate income  means 185 percent of the applicable family size income levels contained in the nonfarm income poverty guidelines prescribed by the Office of Management and Budget, as adjusted annually in accordance with subparagraph (B) of section 9(b)(1) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1758(b)(1) ).
