 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Nuclear Forensics Authority Realignment Act . 
 2.  Establishment of National Nuclear Forensics Center  (a)  Establishment  (1)  In general The National Nuclear Security Administration Act ( 50 U.S.C. 2401  et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 3221 the following new section: 3222.  National Nuclear Forensics Center  (a)  Establishment There is within the Administration a National Nuclear Forensics Center (in this section referred to as the  Center ). (b)  Mission  The mission of the Center shall be to coordinate stewardship, planning, assessment, gap analysis, exercises, improvement, including operational improvements and research, development, testing, and evaluation, and integration for all Federal nuclear forensics and attribution activities to ensure an enduring national technical nuclear forensics capability to strengthen the collective response of the United States to nuclear terrorism or other nuclear attacks. 
 .  (2)  Clerical amendment  The table of contents at the beginning of such Act is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 3221 the following new item:  Sec. 3222. National Nuclear Forensics Center.  .  (3)  Nuclear forensics expertise Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator for Nuclear Security shall develop and implement a plan to modify the university program of the National Nuclear Security Administration established under section 4814 of the Atomic Energy Defense Act ( 50 U.S.C. 2795 ) to include the development of expertise in nuclear forensics in supporting scientific and engineering advancement in key Department of Energy defense and national security program areas. (b)  Conforming Repeals  (1)  In general The Nuclear Forensics and Attribution Act ( Public Law 111–140 ) is hereby repealed. (2)  Homeland Security Act of 2002 Title XIX of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 ( 6 U.S.C. 590  et seq.) is amended as follows: (A)  In section 1923—  (i)  in subsection (a)—  (I) by striking (a)  Mission.— ;  (II) in paragraph (9), by striking the semicolon and inserting  ; and ; (III)  by striking paragraphs (10), (11), (12), and (13); and  (IV)  by redesignating paragraph (14) as paragraph (10); and  (ii)  by striking subsection (b).  (B) In section 1927(a)(1) ( 6 U.S.C. 596a(a)(1) )— (i) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking the semicolon and inserting  ; and ;  (ii) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking  ; and  and inserting a period; and (iii)  by striking subparagraph (C).  (c)  References and construction  Any reference in any law, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the National Technical Nuclear Forensics Center established within the Countering Weapons of Mass Destruction Office of the Department of Homeland Security, formerly the Domestic Nuclear Detection Office, shall be deemed to be a reference to the National Nuclear Forensics Center established by section 3222 of the National Nuclear Security Administration Act, as added by subsection (a). 
