 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Easy Access to Mail Act .
 2.  Limitation on centralized delivery for certain residential housing units  (a)  In general Subchapter VII of  chapter 36  of title 39, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 3692.  Limitation on centralized delivery  (a)  Definitions  In this section—  (1) the term  centralized delivery  means a primary mode of mail delivery whereby mail receptacles of a number of delivery points are grouped or clustered at a single location; (2) the term  primary mode of mail delivery  means the typical method by which the Postal Service delivers letter mail to the delivery point of a postal patron; and (3) the term  housing development  means any single-family residential home or townhouse, but does not include any multi-home apartment or condominium building. (b)  Retroactive change to mode of delivery prohibited  For any housing development with respect to which the primary mode of mail delivery is any such mode except for centralized delivery on the date of the enactment of this section, the Postal Service may not change such mode of delivery to centralized delivery.  (c)  Approval required  (1)  In general  The Postal Service may not require centralized delivery with respect to any housing development constructed after the date of the enactment of this section without prior approval from the local legislative body, or, in the absence of a local legislative body, the legislature of the State with jurisdiction over the affected property.  (2)  Notice and comment  If approval for centralized delivery is granted under paragraph (1), at least 60 days before commencing such delivery, the local postmaster shall provide—  (A)  written notice to any other units of local government and any planning commissions located within the applicable county; and  (B)  a period of 60 days for public comment from residents, property owners, and home builders within such county regarding the use of centralized delivery at the applicable housing development. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections for  chapter 36  of title 39, United States Code, is amended by adding after the item relating to section 3691 the following: 3692. Limitation on centralized delivery.  .  (c)  Postal Service policies affecting vulnerable communities  The Postal Regulatory Commission shall ensure that the United States Postal Service does not change any Postal Service policy in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act that would result in a disproportionate negative affect on rural, lower income, elderly, disabled, or predominately minority communities. 
