 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Transportation Security Public Health Threat Preparedness Act of 2021 .
 2.  Definitions  For purposes of this Act:  (1)  Administrator The term  Administrator  means the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration. (2)  Appropriate congressional committees The term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (A)  the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives; and  (B)  the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate.  (3)  Department The term  Department  means the Department of Homeland Security. (4)  Sterile area The term  sterile area  has the meaning given such term in section 1540.5 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations. (5)  TSA The term  TSA  means the Transportation Security Administration.
 3.  Authorization of TSA personnel details  (a)  Coordination  Pursuant to sections 106(m) and 114(m) of title 49, United States Code, the Administrator may provide TSA personnel, who are not engaged in front line transportation security efforts, to other components of the Department and other Federal agencies to improve coordination with such components and agencies to prepare for, protect against, and respond to public health threats to the transportation security system of the United States.  (b)  Briefing  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the appropriate congressional committees regarding efforts to improve coordination with other components of the Department and other Federal agencies to prepare for, protect against, and respond to public health threats to the transportation security system of the United States. 
 4.  TSA preparedness  (a)  Analysis  (1)  In general  The Administrator shall conduct an analysis of preparedness of the transportation security system of the United States for public health threats. Such analysis shall assess, at a minimum, the following:  (A)  The risks of public health threats to the transportation security system of the United States, including to transportation hubs, transportation security stakeholders, TSA personnel, and passengers.  (B)  Information sharing challenges among relevant components of the Department, other Federal agencies, international entities, and transportation security stakeholders.  (C)  Impacts to TSA policies and procedures for securing the transportation security system.  (2)  Coordination  The analysis conducted of the risks described in paragraph (1)(A) shall be conducted in coordination with the Chief Medical Officer of the Department of Homeland Security, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, and transportation security stakeholders.  (b)  Briefing  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the appropriate congressional committees on the following:  (1)  The analysis required under subsection (a).  (2)  Technologies necessary to combat public health threats at security screening checkpoints to better protect from future public health threats TSA personnel, passengers, aviation workers, and other personnel authorized to access the sterile area of an airport through such checkpoints, and the estimated cost of technology investments needed to fully implement across the aviation system solutions to such threats.  (3)  Policies and procedures implemented by TSA and transportation security stakeholders to protect from public health threats TSA personnel, passengers, aviation workers, and other personnel authorized to access the sterile area through the security screening checkpoints, as well as future plans for additional measures relating to such protection.  (4)  The role of TSA in establishing priorities, developing solutions, and coordinating and sharing information with relevant domestic and international entities during a public health threat to the transportation security system, and how TSA can improve its leadership role in such areas. 
