 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Help Ensure Lower Patient Copays Act  or the  HELP Copays Act . 
 2.  Application of additional payments, discounts, and other financial assistance towards cost-sharing requirements  (a)  Application toward cost-Sharing requirements Section 2715(g)(1) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300gg–15(g)(1) ) is amended by adding at the end the following: In developing the standards for defining the terms  deductible ,  co-insurance ,  co-payment , and  out-of-pocket limit  (as described in paragraph (2)), such standards shall provide that such terms include amounts paid by, or on behalf of, an individual enrolled in a group health plan or group or individual health insurance coverage, including third-party payments, financial assistance, discounts, product vouchers, and other reductions in out-of-pocket expenses and that such amounts shall be counted toward such deductible, co-insurance, co-payment, or limit, respectively.. (b)  Conforming amendments  (1)  PPACA Section 1302(c)(3) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act ( 42 U.S.C. 18022(c)(3) ) is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: (C)  Application of terms For purposes of subparagraph (A), the terms  deductible ,  coinsurance ,  copayment , or  similar charge  and any other expenditure described in clause (ii) of such subparagraph shall include amounts paid by, or on behalf of, an individual enrolled in a group health plan or group or individual health insurance coverage, including third-party payments, financial assistance, discounts, product vouchers, and other reductions in out-of-pocket expenses and such amounts shall be counted toward such deductible, coinsurance, copayment, charge, or other expenditure, respectively. .  (2)  PHSA Section 2707(b) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300gg–6(b) ) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence: For purposes of the previous sentence, such limitation shall be applied as if the reference to  essential health benefits  in section 1302(c)(3) of the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act were a reference to  any item or service covered under the plan included within a category of essential health benefits as described in (b)(1) of such section ..
