 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Strategic Production Response Act  or the  SPR Act .
 2.  Strategic production response plan Section 161 of the Energy Policy and Conservation Act ( 42 U.S.C. 6241 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (k)  Strategic production response plan  (1)  Definition of Federal land  (A)  In general In this subsection, the term  Federal land  means land, including outer Continental Shelf land, the title to which is held by the United States. (B)  Exclusions In this subsection, the term  Federal land  does not include land otherwise not available for oil and gas development within— (i)  a unit of the National Park System;  (ii)  a unit of the National Wildlife Refuge System;   (iii)  a component of the National Wilderness Preservation System;  (iv)  a National Marine Sanctuary; or  (v)  Indian land.  (2)  Plan  Except in the case of a severe energy supply interruption described in subsection (d) or as otherwise mandated by Congress, the Secretary may not execute 1 drawdown or a series of 2 or more drawdowns of petroleum products in the Reserve after the date of enactment of this subsection, whether through sale, exchange, or loan, until the Secretary of the Interior has, as applicable, issued a plan or updated a previously issued plan to increase the production of oil and gas on Federal land.  (3)  Requirements for plan Each plan issued or updated under paragraph (2) shall include proposed actions to increase oil and gas production on Federal land that are in addition to lease sales previously scheduled by the Secretary of the Interior under the Mineral Leasing Act ( 30 U.S.C. 181 et seq. ) and the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1331 et seq. ).  (4)  Consultation  The Secretary of the Interior shall issue or update each plan required under paragraph (2) in consultation with the Secretary, the Secretary of Agriculture, the Secretary of Commerce, and the Secretary of Defense.  (5)  Congressional submission  Not later than 60 days after the date on which the Secretary executes 1 drawdown or a series of 2 or more drawdowns of petroleum products in the Reserve after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Secretary of the Interior shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Energy and Commerce and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives a copy of the applicable plan required under paragraph (2).  . 
