 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Global War on Terrorism Memorial Location Act .
 2.  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1)  Nearing two decades after the September 11 attacks against the United States, America continues the Global War on Terrorism, at great personal cost to men and women serving on active duty in the Nation’s Armed Forces and to those whose support they depend upon to fulfill their duties.  (2)  Civil servants from Federal agencies, the intelligence community, local emergency responders, and other civilian support personnel have made significant sacrifices in their service in the Global War on Terrorism.  (3) Honoring the losses endured by these individuals and their families, in 2017 Congress unanimously passed and the President signed  Public Law 115–51 , which allowed the Global War on Terrorism Memorial Foundation to establish a memorial to the fallen on Federal land in the District of Columbia. (4)  Given the significance of the Global War on Terrorism as the longest-running conflict in United States history and the magnitude of the sacrifice involved in these operations, it is appropriate to locate the memorial to the Global War on Terrorism within the Reserve alongside existing memorials to the Nation’s major armed conflicts. 
 3.  National global war on terrorism memorial location  (a)  Authorization  Notwithstanding section 8908(c) of title 40, United States Code, the Global War on Terrorism Memorial Foundation may establish a National Global War on Terrorism Memorial within the Reserve.  (b)  Location The Memorial shall be located at one of the following sites, as identified in and consistent with the document known as  The Memorials and Museums Master Plan : (1)  Potential Site 1—Constitution Gardens, Prime Candidate Site 10 in The Memorials and Museums Master Plan.  (2)  Potential Site 2—JFK Hockey Fields, Prime Candidate Site 18 in The Memorials and Museums Master Plan.  (3)  Potential Site 3—West Potomac Park, Candidate Site 70 in The Memorials and Museums Master Plan.  (c)  Commemorative works act Except as otherwise provided by subsections (a) and (b),  chapter 89  of title 40, United States Code (commonly known as the ‘‘Commemorative Works Act’’), shall apply to the Memorial. (d)  Definitions  For the purposes of this section, the following definitions apply—  (1)  Memorial The term  Memorial  means the National Global War on Terrorism Memorial authorized by subsection (a). (2)  Reserve The term  Reserve  has the meaning given that term in 8902(a)(3) of title 40, United States Code.
