 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Safe Driving Vehicles Act .
 2.  Consumer education program and campaigns  (a)  Program and related resources  (1)  In general  Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall develop an educational program and related resources to inform the public about the health and safety risks relating to the following:  (A)  Children or pets left unattended in motor vehicles or that independently access unoccupied motor vehicles on their own.  (B)  Carbon monoxide poisoning from keyless ignition systems.  (C)  Driving while under the influence of alcohol or drugs, including marijuana and opioids.  (D)  Driving while distracted.  (E)  Driving while tired or drowsy.  (2)  Public availability  The Secretary shall ensure that the educational program and related resources developed under paragraph (1) are available to and readily accessible by the public on the website of the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration.  (b)  Annual education campaigns  Beginning with the 1-year period that begins on the date that is 6 months after the date on which the Secretary completes the development of the educational program and related resources under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary shall carry out an annual education campaign to inform the public about the health and safety risks described in such subsection.  (c)  Consultation  In developing the educational program and related resources under subsection (a)(1) and carrying out annual education campaigns under subsection (b), the Secretary shall consult with motor vehicle industry representatives (including manufacturers and dealers), States, other relevant stakeholders, and motor vehicle safety organizations.  (d)  Advertising and outreach  In carrying out annual education campaigns under subsection (b), the Secretary may develop, produce, and implement an advertising campaign through appropriate mediums.  (e)  Definitions In this section, the terms  dealer ,  manufacturer , and  motor vehicle  have the meanings given such terms in section 30102 of title 49, United States Code.
