 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Amache National Historic Site Act .
 2.  Definitions   In this Act:  (1)  National historic site The term  National Historic Site  means the Amache National Historic Site established by section 3(a). (2)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service.
 3.  Amache national historic site  (a)  Establishment  There is established the Amache National Historic Site in the State of Colorado as a unit of the National Park System.  (b)  Purpose  The purpose of the National Historic Site is to preserve, protect, and interpret for the benefit of present and future generations resources associated with—  (1)  the incarceration of civilians of Japanese ancestry during World War II at Amache, also known as the Granada Relocation Center, and the military service of center incarcerees;  (2)  public reaction in the State of Colorado to the incarceration of Japanese Americans, including the position of Governor Ralph Carr and the local community; and  (3)  the transition of the incarcerees and their descendants following the closure of the center and resettlement in the State of Colorado and other States.  (c)  Map; boundaries  (1)  Map  As soon as practicable after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prepare a map, in consultation with the town of Granada, of the National Historic Site.  (2)  Availability of map  The map prepared under paragraph (1) shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.  (3)  Boundaries  The boundaries of the National Historic Site shall be the boundaries generally depicted on the map prepared under paragraph (1).  (d)  Property acquisition authority  (1)  Real property  The Secretary may acquire any land or interests in land located within the exterior boundary of the National Historic Site by—  (A)  donation; or  (B)  purchase with donated or appropriated funds.  (2)  Personal property  The Secretary may acquire personal property associated with the purposes of the site only by donation.  (e)  Conditions  The site shall not be established until the date on which the Secretary acquires sufficient land within the exterior boundary of the site to constitute a manageable unit.  (f)  Administration  (1)  In general  The Secretary shall administer the National Historic Site in accordance with—  (A)  this Act; and  (B)  the laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System.  (2)  Management plan  (A)  Deadline for completion  Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are first made available to the Secretary for this purpose, the Secretary shall prepare a general management plan for the National Historic Site in accordance with section 100502 of title 54, United States Code.  (B)  Inclusion  The general management plan prepared under subparagraph (A) shall identify, as appropriate, the roles and responsibilities of the National Park Service and any applicable management entity in administering and interpreting the National Historic Site and areas affiliated with the National Historic Site in a manner that does not interfere with existing operations and the continued use of existing facilities at the National Historic Site.  (C)  Submission to congress  On completion of the general management plan under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives the general management plan prepared under that subparagraph.  (g)  Administrative facilities  For the purposes of ensuring the preservation, protection, and proper management of the site and associated resources, the Secretary may establish facilities for administration, visitor services, and curation of personal property, outside the exterior boundaries of, and in the vicinity of, the site.  (h)  Cooperative agreements  The Secretary may enter into agreements with—  (1)  the public or private entities for the purpose of establishing and operating facilities outside of the exterior boundary of the site for administration, visitor services and curation of personal property; and  (2)  other public or private entities for the purposes of carrying out this Act.  (i)  Effect on water rights  Nothing in this Act affects—  (1)  the use, allocation, ownership, or control, in existence on the date of the enactment of any water, water right, or any other valid existing right;  (2)  any vested absolute or decreed conditional water right in existence on the date of the enactment;  (3)  any interstate water compact in existence on the date of the enactment; or  (4)  State jurisdiction over any water law. 
