
 1.  Membership of Commandant of the Coast Guard on the Joint Chiefs of Staff 
 (a)  Membership on the Joint Chiefs of Staff  Section 151(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:    (9)  The Commandant of the Coast Guard.  . 
 (b)  Appointment of Chairman; grade and rank  Section 152 of such title is amended—   (1) in subsection (b)(1)(B) by striking  or the Commandant of the Marine Corps  and inserting  the Commandant of the Marine Corps, or the Commandant of the Coast Guard ; and 
 (2) in subsection (c), by striking  Navy  and inserting  Navy or Coast Guard .  (c)  Vice Chairman Section 154(f) of such title is amended by striking  Navy  and inserting  Navy or Coast Guard .
 (d)  Inclusion on the Joint Staff  Section 155(a) of such title is amended—   (1)  in paragraph (2)— 
 (A) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking  (other than the Coast Guard) ;  (B) in subparagraph (B), by striking  and  at the end;
 (C) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and  (D)  by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: 

 (D)  the Coast Guard.  ; and    (2) in paragraph (3), by striking  Secretary of the military department having jurisdiction over that armed force  and inserting  Secretary concerned . 
 (e)  Duties as member of Joint Staff  Section 302 of title 14, United States Code, is amended—   (1) by striking  The President may  and inserting the following:

 (a)  The President may  ; and   (2)  by adding at the end the following new subsection: 

 (b) 
 (1)  The Commandant of the Coast Guard shall also perform the duties prescribed for the Commandant as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff under section 151 of title 10.   (2)  To the extent that such action does not impair the independence of the Commandant in the performance of the Commandant’s duties as a member of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, the Commandant shall inform the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating regarding military advice rendered by members of the Joint Chiefs of Staff on matters affecting such department. 
 (3)  Subject to the authority, direction, and control of the Secretary of Defense, the Commandant shall keep the Secretary of the department in which the Coast Guard is operating fully informed of significant military operations affecting the duties and responsibilities of such Secretary.  . 
 