 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Study To Observe and Prevent (STOP) Human Trafficking Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Study on the prevalence and instances of human trafficking at adult entertainment clubs  (a)  Study Required  The Attorney General, in coordination with the President’s Interagency Task Force to Monitor and Combat Trafficking in Persons, shall conduct a study on the prevalence and instances of human trafficking at adult entertainment clubs in the United States. In conducting the study, the Attorney General shall collaborate with non-governmental entities with demonstrated expertise in studying human trafficking.  (b)  Study Contents  In conducting the study required under subsection (a), the Attorney General shall gather information on—  (1)  demographic characteristics of victims, including age groups of victims;  (2)  any relationship between victims of human trafficking and adult entertainment clubs, including victims’ status as an employee, contractor, or licensee; and  (3)  any methods of fraud, force, or coercion used by human traffickers.  (c)  Report  Not later than 15 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall submit to Congress a report on the findings of the study required under subsection (a) and any recommendations of the Attorney General relating to such findings.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  adult entertainment club  means an establishment that offers or provides live performance, display, or dance of any type involving any actual or simulated performance of sexual activities and nude or seminude exposure. Such an establishment may include one that features entertainment of an erotic nature, including exotic dancers, strippers, male or female impersonators, or similar entertainers. (2) The term  human trafficking  has the meaning given the term  severe form of trafficking in persons  in section 103 of the Victims of Trafficking and Violence Protection Act of 2000 ( 22 U.S.C. 7102 ).
