 1.  Short title; findings  (a)  Short title This Act may be cited as the  PFC Garfield M. Langhorn Memorial Semipostal Stamp to Benefit our Veterans Act of 2021 . (b)  Findings  The Congress finds the following:  (1)  PFC Garfield M. Langhorn was deployed to Vietnam as a private first class and radio operator with Troop C, 7th Squadron (Airmobile), 17th Cavalry Regiment, 1st Aviation Brigade.  (2)  On January 15, 1969, PFC Langhorn and his unit responded to a downed American helicopter near Plei Djereng in Pleiku Province, South Vietnam. After PFC Langhorn and his unit responded to the downed helicopter, they were attacked by entrenched North Vietnamese forces.  (3)  During the battle, PFC Langhorn threw himself on an active enemy hand grenade that had been thrown near several wounded soldiers. PFC Langhorn was killed during the explosion but saved the lives of the rest of his platoon.  (4)  On April 7, 1970, the President of the United States of America, in the name of Congress, awarded PFC Garfield Langhorn the Congressional Medal of Honor posthumously to commemorate his conspicuous gallantry and intrepidity in action at the risk of his life above and beyond the call of duty. 
 2.  PFC Garfield M. Langhorn Memorial Semipostal Stamp to Benefit our Veterans  (a)  In general In order to afford a convenient way for members of the public to contribute to funding for the Supportive Services for Veteran Families program of the Department of Veterans Affairs under section 2044 of title 38, United States Code, the United States Postal Service shall issue a semipostal stamp (referred to in this Act as the  PFC Garfield M. Langhorn Memorial Semipostal Stamp to Benefit our Veterans ) in accordance with the provisions of this section. (b)  Cost  The PFC Garfield M. Langhorn Memorial Semipostal Stamp to Benefit our Veterans shall be offered at a cost equal to the cost of mailing a letter weighing 1 ounce or less at the nonautomation single-piece first-ounce letter rate, in effect at the time of purchase, plus a differential of not less than 25 percent.  (c)  Other terms and conditions  The issuance and sale of the PFC Garfield M. Langhorn Memorial Semipostal Stamp to Benefit our Veterans shall be governed by the provisions of section 416 of title 39, United States Code, and regulations issued under such section, subject to subsection (b) and the following:  (1)  Disposition of proceeds  (A)  In general  All amounts becoming available from the sale of the PFC Garfield M. Langhorn Memorial Semipostal Stamp to Benefit our Veterans shall be transferred to the Department of Veterans Affairs for the purpose of funding the operations of the program described in subsection (a), through payments which shall be made at least twice a year.  (B)  Proceeds not to be offset  In accordance with section 416(d)(4) of such title 39, amounts becoming available from the sale of the PFC Garfield M. Langhorn Memorial Semipostal Stamp to Benefit our Veterans (as so determined) shall not be taken into account in any decision relating to the level of appropriations or other Federal funding to be furnished in any year to the program described in subsection (a) or to the Department of Veterans Affairs.  (2)  Duration  The PFC Garfield M. Langhorn Semipostal Stamp to Benefit our Veterans shall be made available to the public for a period of at least 5 years, beginning no later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act.  (3)  Stamp depictions  Stamps issued under this Act shall depict PFC Garfield M. Langhorn.  (4)  Limitation  The PFC Garfield M. Langhorn Semipostal Stamp to Benefit our Veterans shall not be subject to, or taken into account for purposes of applying, any limitation under section 416(e)(1)(C) of such title 39.  (d)  Definition For purposes of this Act, the term  semipostal stamp  refers to a stamp described in section 416(a)(1) of title 39, United States Code.
