 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  See the Board Act .
 2.  Grant program to support access to free eye care services for students at public schools  (a)  In general Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall, subject to subsection (d), establish a grant program under which the Secretary awards grants to eligible entities that provide a qualifying eye care services program to purchase portable or mobile optometry equipment and to pay for appropriate operational costs, including for costs for qualified personal protective equipment, direct health care or service delivery costs, and any other relevant expense the Secretary determines necessary, for the provision of free eye care services through such program to students attending public elementary schools or secondary schools (as such terms are defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 )). (b)  Eligible entities described  For purposes of this section, an eligible entity is a nonprofit organization.  (c)  Qualifying eye care services program For purposes of this section, the term  qualifying eye care services program  means a program under which such services are furnished free of charge to students attending public elementary schools or secondary schools (as such terms are defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 )) through the use of mobile eye clinics or mobile clinics that use portable equipment to bring screenings, exams, and an optical shop to such students. Such a program may use qualified health care providers at such schools or ophthalmic technicians for screening, optometrists or ophthalmologists for follow-up examinations, and an optician and dispensary for such students to be given glasses at such schools. (d)  Sense of Congress  It is the sense of Congress that eligible entities awarded grants under this section should, to the greatest extent possible, provide information to students described in subsection (a) and parents of such students about the importance of adhering to the medically recommended schedule for vision screenings and comprehensive eye exams.  (e)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2027. 
