 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Access to Small Business Investor Capital Act .
 2.  Amendments to acquired fund fees and expenses reporting on investment company registration statements  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Acquired Fund The term  Acquired Fund  has the meaning given the term in Forms N–1A, N–2, and N–3. (2)  Acquired Fund Fees and Expenses The term  Acquired Fund Fees and Expenses  means the Acquired Fund Fees and Expenses sub-caption in the Fee Table Disclosure. (3)  Business development company The term  business development company  has the meaning given the term in section 2(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 ( 15 U.S.C. 80a–2(a) ). (4)  Fee Table Disclosure The term  Fee Table Disclosure  means the fee table described in Item 3 of Form N–1A, Item 3 of Form N–2, or Item 4 of Form N–3 (as applicable, and with respect to each, in any successor fee table disclosure that the Securities and Exchange Commission adopts). (5)  Form N–1A The term  Form N–1A  means the form described in section 274.11A of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation. (6)  Form N–2 The term  Form N–2  means the form described in section 274.11a–1 of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation. (7)  Form N–3 The term  Form N–3  means the form described in section 274.11b of title 17, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation. (8)  Registered investment company The term  registered investment company  means an investment company, as defined under section 2(a) of the Investment Company Act of 1940, registered with the Securities and Exchange Commission under such Act. (b)  Excluding business development companies from Acquired Fund Fees and Expenses A registered investment company may, on any investment company registration statement filed pursuant to section 8(b) of the Investment Company Act of 1940 ( 15 U.S.C. 80a–8(b) )— (1)  omit from the calculation of Acquired Fund Fees and Expenses those fees and expenses that the investment company incurred indirectly as a result of investment in shares of one or more Acquired Funds that is a business development company; and  (2)  instead disclose in a footnote to the Fee Table Disclosure those fees and expenses that paragraph (1) describes, calculated according to the Acquired Fund Fees and Expenses formula. 
