 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Energy Storage Tax Incentive and Deployment Act of 2021 .
 2.  Energy credit for energy storage technologies  (a)  In general Subclause (II) of  section 48(a)(2)(A)(i)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  paragraph (3)(A)(i)  and inserting  clause (i) or (ix) of paragraph (3)(A) . (b)  Energy storage technologies Subparagraph (A) of  section 48(a)(3)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  or  at the end of clause (vii), by adding  or  at the end of clause (viii), and by adding at the end the following new clause: (ix)  equipment which receives, stores, and delivers energy using batteries, compressed air, pumped hydropower, hydrogen storage (including electrolysis), thermal energy storage, regenerative fuel cells, fly­wheels, capacitors, superconducting mag­nets, or other technologies identified by the Secretary in consultation with the Secretary of Energy, and which has a capacity of not less than 5 kilowatt hours,  .  (c)  Phaseout of credit Paragraph (6) of  section 48(a)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended— (1) by striking  energy  in the heading and inserting  and energy storage ; and (2) by striking  paragraph (3)(A)(i)  both places it appears and inserting  clause (i) or (ix) of paragraph (3)(A) . (d)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to property placed in service after December 31, 2020. 
 3.  Residential energy efficient property credit for battery storage technology  (a)  In general Subsection (a) of  section 25D  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended— (1) by striking  and  at the end of paragraph (5); and  (2)  by adding at the end the following new paragraph:  (7)  the qualified battery storage technology expenditures,  .  (b)  Qualified battery storage technology expenditure Subsection (d) of  section 25D  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: (7)  Qualified battery storage technology expenditure The term  qualified battery storage technology expenditure  means an expenditure for battery storage technology which— (A)  is installed on or in connection with a dwelling unit located in the United States and used as a residence by the taxpayer, and  (B)  has a capacity of not less than 3 kilowatt hours.  .  (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to expenditures paid or incurred in taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020. 
