 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Ensuring Access to Counseling and Training for All Small Businesses Act of 2021 .
 2.  Definitions relating to cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers Section 3 of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 632 ) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: (gg)  Definitions relating to cannabis-Related legitimate businesses and service providers  In this Act:  (1)  Cannabis The term  cannabis  has the meaning given the term  marihuana  in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act. (2)  Cannabis product The term  cannabis product  means any article which contains cannabis, including an article which is a concentrate, an edible, a tincture, a cannabis-infused product, or a topical. (3)  Cannabis-related legitimate business The term  cannabis-related legitimate business  means a manufacturer, producer, or any person or company that is a small business concern and that— (A)  engages in any activity described in subparagraph (B) pursuant to a law established by a State or a political subdivision of a State, as determined by such State or political subdivision; and  (B)  participates in any business or organized activity that involves handling cannabis or cannabis products, including cultivating, producing, manufacturing, selling, transporting, displaying, dispensing, distributing, or purchasing cannabis or cannabis products.  (4)  Manufacturer The term  manufacturer  means a person who manufactures, compounds, converts, processes, prepares, or packages cannabis or cannabis products. (5)  Producer The term  producer  means a person who plants, cultivates, harvests, or in any way facilitates the natural growth of cannabis. (6)  Service provider The term  service provider — (A)  means a business, organization, or other person that—  (i)  sells goods or services to a cannabis-related legitimate business; or  (ii)  provides any business services, including the sale or lease of real or any other property, legal or other licensed services, or any other ancillary service, relating to cannabis; and  (B)  does not include a business, organization, or other person that participates in any business or organized activity that involves handling cannabis or cannabis products, including cultivating, producing, manufacturing, selling, transporting, displaying, dispensing, distributing, or purchasing cannabis or cannabis products.  (7)  State The term  State  means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, Puerto Rico, and any territory or possession of the United States. . 
 3.  Entrepreneurial development services for cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers  (a)  Small business development centers Section 21(c) of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 648(c) ) is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph: (9)  Services for cannabis-related legitimate businesses and service providers  A small business development center may not decline to provide services to an otherwise eligible small business concern under this section solely because such concern is a cannabis-related legitimate business or service provider.  .  (b)  Women’s business centers Section 29 of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 656 ) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: (p)  Services for cannabis-Related legitimate businesses and service providers  A women’s business center may not decline to provide services to an otherwise eligible small business concern under this section solely because such concern is a cannabis-related legitimate business or service provider.  .  (c)  SCORE Section 8(b)(1)(B) of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 637(b)(1)(B) ) is amended by adding at the end the following new sentence:  The head of the SCORE program established under this subparagraph may not decline to provide services to an otherwise eligible small business concern solely because such concern is a cannabis-related legitimate business or service provider. . (d)  Veteran Business Outreach Centers Section 32 of the Small Business Act is amended ( 15 U.S.C. 657b ) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: (h)  Services for cannabis-Related legitimate businesses and service providers  A Veteran Business Outreach Center may not decline to provide services to an otherwise eligible small business concern under this section solely because such concern is a cannabis-related legitimate business or service provider.  . 
