 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Chinese Communist Party Visa Disclosure Act of 2021  or the  CCP Visa Disclosure Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Disclosure on certain visa applications  (a)  Disclosure requirement for F and M visas  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall update Form I–20, or a successor form with respect to eligibility for nonimmigrant student status, to require an alien submitting such form to report—  (1)  whether the alien has received or plans to receive certain funds;   (2)  the amount of any certain funds received by the alien; and  (3)  a description of the entity providing any certain funds to the alien.   (b)  Disclosure requirement for J visas  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of State shall update Form DS–2019, or a successor form with respect to eligibility for a exchange visitor status, to require an alien submitting such form to report—  (1)  whether the alien has received or plans to receive certain funds;   (2)  the amount of any certain funds received by the alien; and  (3)  a description of the entity providing any certain funds to the alien.   (c)  Updated disclosure requirement  (1)  In general An alien who receives certain funds after receiving a visa under subparagraph (F), (J), or (M) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15) ) shall report to the Secretary of Homeland Security and the Secretary of State the receipt of such funds not more than 90 days after the date on which such funds are received. (2)  Provisional revocation based on failure to comply with disclosure requirement  An alien who receives certain funds and does not report such receipt pursuant to paragraph (1) is subject to revocation of any visa or other entry documentation regardless of when the visa or other entry documentation was issued.   (d)  Disclosure for alien spouse and minor children The disclosure requirements under subsections (a) through (c) shall apply to an alien spouse or any minor children applying for or receiving a visa under subparagraph (F), (J), or (M) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15) ). (e)  Applicability Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, an alien, alien spouse, or any minor children who have a valid visa under subparagraph (F), (J), or (M) of section 101(a)(15) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1101(a)(15) ) on the date of the enactment of this Act, shall report to the Secretary of Homeland Security— (1)  whether such alien has received or plans to receive certain funds;   (2)  the amount of any certain funds received by the alien; and  (3)  a description of the entity providing any certain funds to the alien.   (f)  Certain funds defined In this section, the term  certain funds  includes any amount of money provided to an alien from— (1)  the Government of the People's Republic of China;  (2)  the Chinese Communist Party; or  (3)  any entity owned or controlled by the Government of the People's Republic of China or the Chinese Communist Party.  
