 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  China Financial Threat Mitigation Act of 2021 .
 2.  Annual report requirement Section 112(a)(2)(N)(iii) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act (12 U.S.C. 5322(a)(2(N)(iii)) is amended by striking  United States  and inserting  United States, including any threats emanating from the governance, opacity, or instability of financial intermediation through banking institutions and otherwise, in the People’s Republic of China . 
 3.  International cooperation  (a)  International Monetary Fund  The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director at the International Monetary Fund to use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States to strengthen international cooperation with respect to monitoring and mitigating any threats emanating from the People’s Republic of China described in the annual report submitted by the Financial Stability Oversight Council to the Congress pursuant to section 112(a)(2)(N) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.  (b)  G20  The Secretary of the Treasury and the Chairman of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System shall use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States at the Group of 20 to strengthen international cooperation with respect to monitoring and mitigating any threats emanating from the People’s Republic of China described in the annual report submitted by the Financial Stability Oversight Council to the Congress pursuant to section 112(a)(2)(N) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act.  (c)  Financial stability board  Any person representing the United States at the Financial Stability Board shall, use the voice, vote, and influence of the United States to strengthen international cooperation with respect to monitoring and mitigating any threats emanating from the People’s Republic of China described in the annual report submitted by the Financial Stability Oversight Council to the Congress pursuant to section 112(a)(2)(N) of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act. 
 4.  Sunset  On the date that is 7 years after the date of enactment of this Act, this Act and the amendments made by it this Act are repealed, and the provision of law amended by section 2 is restored as if such section had not been enacted.  
