
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Naomi Schwartz Safe Parking Program Act of 2021  .
  2.  Safe parking program grants   (a)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall establish a grant program to provide amounts to eligible entities for costs associated with the establishment and operation of new or existing safe parking program.  
 (b)  Grant term  If the Secretary awards a grant to an eligible entity under subsection (a), such grant shall be for a term of 5 years.   (c)  Amount   (1)  In general  An eligible entity awarded a grant under this section shall receive an equal amount of money in each of the 5 years of the term of the grant. 
 (2)  Cap  No eligible entity may receive an amount under this section that exceeds $5,000,000.   (d)  Applications   (1)  In general  To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including a description of how any amounts awarded to the eligible entity will be used. 
 (2)  Multiple locations  An eligible entity may, in such application, propose to establish or continue operating safe parking program as multiple locations.    (3)  Priority  The Secretary shall give priority to applications from eligible entities that serve homeless persons in underserved areas, as such term is defined in section 81.2 of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations.  
 (e)  Use of funds  Except as provided by subsection (f), any eligible entity that is awarded an amount under this section shall use such amount for costs associated with—   (1)  establishing and operating a safe parking program; 
 (2)  providing permanent rehousing assistance to families using the safe parking program;   (3)  employing staff who maintain the safety and health of participants and monitor program or shelter compliance; 
 (4)  establishing and maintaining the operation of hygiene facilities and restrooms for homeless persons;   (5)  maintaining the vehicles of homeless persons using a safe parking program and providing gas for such persons to use their vehicles to drive to places that will help them obtain or maintain housing, including to work, to schools, to medical appointments, and to search for home; or 
 (6)  entering data and information into the Department of Housing and Urban Development’s Homeless Management Information System.   (f)  Alternative use of funds  If a eligible entity determines that a safe parking program is no longer necessary, such eligible entity may, after approval from the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development use any amounts provided under this section for activities that are eligible for the use of emergency solutions grant program amounts under section 415 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act. 
 (g)  Rehousing and case management services  Any homeless person who makes use of a safe parking program established or operated using amounts awarded under this section is not required to accept case management or rehousing services offered as part of such program.    (h)  Definitions   (1)  Eligible entity The term  eligible entity  means—
 (A)  a unit of general purpose local government;   (B)  an Indian tribe or its tribally designated housing entity as such terms are defined in section 4 of the Native American Housing Assistance and Self-Determination Act of 1996; 
 (C)  a non-profit organization that provides services to homeless persons; or   (D) a collaborative applicant or other organization or entity funded under the Continuum of Care program under subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 11381  et seq.).
 (2)  Essential service The term  essential service  as the meaning given the term in section 567.102 of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations.   (3)  Homeless person The term  homeless person  has the meaning given the term in section 103 of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act.
 (4)  Safe parking program The term  safe parking program  means a program that—  (A)  provides homeless persons living in vehicles, including motor homes, with a safe place to park their vehicles overnight to facilitate a transition to more stable housing; and 
 (B)  provides re-housing services and essential services.   (5)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development.
 (6)  State The term  State  means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States.  (i)  Report to Congress  The Secretary shall, not later than 180 days after the end of the second fiscal year and after the end of the fifth fiscal year following the date of the enactment of this section, submit to the Congress a report on the impact of grants awarded under this section, including, to the extent determinable, any data about— 
 (1)  the number of homeless persons living in vehicles in the geographic region in which the eligible entity operates in each of the 7 previous years;    (2)  the demographics and number of homeless persons who choose to participate in a safe parking program; and 
 (3)  the number of homeless persons who choose to participate in a safe parking program who exit into permanent housing.   (j)  Authorization of Appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this Act $25,000,000 for each of the first 5 fiscal years beginning after the date of the enactment of this section.  
 (k)  Termination of grant program  The Secretary may not award any grant under this section after the date that is final day of the fifth fiscal year beginning afer the date of the enactment of this section.  
 