
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Border Wall Trust Fund Act .
  2.  Border wall trust fund   (a)  Border wall trust fund At the end of subchapter III of  chapter 33  of title 31, United States Code, insert the following:

 3344.  Border Wall Trust Fund. 
 (a)  In general 
 (1)  Receive gifts  Notwithstanding section 3113 of title 31, the Secretary of the Treasury may accept for the Government a gift of money on the condition that it be used to plan, design, construct, or maintain a barrier along the international border between the United States and Mexico.   (2)  Trust fund  Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary of the Treasury shall— 
 (A) establish an account, to be known as the  Border Wall Trust Fund , into which money received as gifts under this section shall be deposited; and  (B)  create a publicly accessible website to receive such gifts. 
 (3)  Appropriation  Money deposited in the Border Wall Trust Fund is appropriated to the Secretary of Homeland Security and may be expended to plan, design, construct, or maintain a barrier along the international border between the United States and Mexico. Such funds may not be used for any other purpose. 
 .   (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of contents for such chapter is amended by inserting at the end the following: 


 3344. Border Wall Trust Fund.  . 

 3.  Commemorative display 
 (a)  Construction  The Secretary of Homeland Security shall, at a time determined by the Secretary and in a manner consistent with the security mission of the border barrier, provide for a commemorative display as an integrated part of the barrier under section 3344 of title 31, United States Code, as added by section 2, recognizing individuals who contributed to the Border Wall Trust Fund.   (b)  Length  The display described in subsection (a) shall be one mile in length, unless the Secretary determines that length to be impracticable, in which case it shall be as close to that length as the Secretary determines practicable consistent with the security mission of such barrier. 
 (c)  Designation of funds  The Secretary of the Treasury shall provide a process by which a donor may designate the donation of that donor to fund construction of the commemorative display under this section.   (d)  Notification to the public  The Secretary of the Treasury shall display on the website described in section 3344(a)(2) of such title, as added by section 2, the following: 
 (1)  A total estimated cost for the commemorative display.   (2)  A notification that donations to the Border Wall Trust Fund not designated under subsection (c) will be used exclusively to plan, design, construct, or maintain a barrier along the international border between the United States and Mexico. 

