 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Aviation Manufacturing Jobs Protection Act of 2021 .
 2.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  At-risk employee group The term  at-risk employee group — (A)  means the 25 percent of an employer’s United States workforce comprised of employees—  (i)  who are most at risk of a permanent reduction in force or furlough due to the COVID–19 public health emergency; or  (ii)  who—  (I)  were previously part of a reduction in force or furlough due to the COVID–19 public health emergency; and  (II)  the employer would choose to recall under the program established by this section; but  (B)  does not include—  (i)  senior executive employees; or  (ii)  any employee with a total compensation level of $200,000 or more.  (2)  Aviation employer The term  aviation employer  means an aviation manufacturing company. (3)  Aviation manufacturing company The term  aviation manufacturing company  means a corporation, firm, or other business entity that— (A)  holds a type or production certificate or similar authorization issued under section 44704 of title 49, United States Code;  (B)  holds a certificate issued under part 145 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations, for maintenance, repair, and overhaul of aircraft, aircraft engines, components, or propellers; or  (C)  under contract or subcontract, produces components, parts, or systems of aircraft, aircraft engines, or appliances for inclusion in an aircraft, aircraft engine, or appliance.  (4)  COVID–19 public health emergency The term  COVID–19 public health emergency  means the public health emergency with respect to the 2019 Novel Coronavirus. (5)  Senior executive employee The term  senior executive employee  means a chief executive officer, chief operating officer, or chief financial officer. (6)  Total compensation level The term  total compensation level  means salary, bonuses, awards of stock, and other financial benefits of an employee, excluding overtime and premium pay, as of April 1, 2020. 
 3.  Payroll support extension program  (a)  In general  The Secretary of Transportation, in coordination with other appropriate Federal departments or agencies, shall establish a payroll support extension program to enter into agreements with aviation employers to provide a 50 percent share for the compensation, benefits, and training of at-risk employee groups financially impacted by the COVID–19 public health emergency.  (b)  Procedures  Not later than 10 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish, and make available to the public, procedures for application and minimum eligibility requirements for participation in the program established under subsection (a).  (c)  Compensation contributions  Under the program established under this section, the Secretary may enter into agreements to provide a 50 percent contribution to ensure the total compensation level of the at-risk employee group of an aviation employer for any period beginning on or after April 1, 2020, and ending not later than April 30, 2023.  (d)  Eligibility  The Secretary may enter into an agreement with an aviation employer under this section if the Secretary determines that—  (1)  the aviation employer has experienced at least a 15 percent decline in revenues between October 1, 2019, and October 1, 2020;  (2)  the aviation employer has an identifiable at-risk employee group;  (3)  the aviation employer agrees to provide the non-Federal share of the agreement under this section;   (4)  the aviation employer provides a written justification for the need for assistance, including the size of the at-risk employee group and a description of the economic conditions of the company that make Federal assistance necessary under this section; and  (5)  receipt of assistance under this section will reduce the likelihood of a permanent reduction in force or furlough, or facilitate the retention or recall, of the at-risk employee group of the aviation employer.  (e)  Requirements  An agreement entered into under this section shall require that—  (1)  the aviation employer may not carry out any permanent reduction in force or furlough of employees in the at-risk employee group for the duration of the agreement, subject to the aviation employer’s right to discipline or terminate an employee in accordance with policies of the aviation employer;  (2)  assistance provided under this section may not be used for stock buybacks or to pay out dividends;  (3)  assistance provided under this section shall be used solely for the purpose of providing compensation, benefits, and training of the at-risk employee group;  (4)  the aviation employer may not—  (A)  circumvent or abrogate a collective bargaining agreement, including any training provided for in such agreement; or  (B)  move jobs assisted by this program out of the United States;  (5)  the aviation employer may only provide compensation, benefits, and training to United States-based employees; and  (6)  restore the rights and protections for returning employees as if such employees had not been involuntarily furloughed.  (f)  Duration of agreement  An agreement entered into under this section shall be for a period not to exceed 6 months, and may be renewed for a period of 2 years, at the discretion of the Secretary, so long as the Secretary recertifies such agreement every 6 months.  (g)  Federal share  The Federal share of assistance provided to an aviation employer under an agreement entered into pursuant to this section shall not exceed 50 percent.  (h)  Multiple agreements  The Secretary may enter into multiple agreements with an aviation employer under this section, except that the total assistance shall not exceed beyond the applicable at-risk employee group.  (i)  Coordination with employee retention credit  The Secretary shall not enter into any agreement under this section with an employer who was allowed a credit under section 2301 of the CARES Act for any calendar quarter ending before such agreement is entered into and such section 2301 shall not apply to any employer who enters into any agreement under this section.  (j)  Report  An aviation employer entering into an agreement under this section shall submit to Congress, after submission to the Secretary for review, on the implementation and allocation of funds provided pursuant to this section.  (k)  Tax treatment  For purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, any public partner contribution provided by the Secretary under this section which is received by any employee shall be included in the gross income of such employee and no deduction shall be allowed under such Code to the employer with respect to any such contribution.  (l)  Termination  (1)  Sunset  The authority established by this Act shall end on April 30, 2023.  (2)  Agreement duration  No agreement may be entered into under this section that provides for assistance after April 30, 2023.  (m)  Authorization of Appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated $15,000,000,000 to carry out this Act. 
