 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Carrie’s Law .
 2.  Arbitration of sexual assault claims  (a)  In general  Title 9 of the United States Code is amended by adding at the end the following:  4  Arbitration of sexual assault claims  Sec.   401. Definitions.   402. Limit on validity and enforceability.   401.  Definitions  In this chapter—  (1) the term  predispute arbitration agreement  means any agreement to arbitrate a claim that had not yet arisen at the time of the making of the agreement; and (2) the term  sexual assault  means a nonconsensual sexual act or sexual contact, as those terms are defined in section 2246 of title 18, or similar applicable State or Tribal law, including when the victim lacks capacity to consent. 
 402.  Limit on validity and enforceability  (a)  In general  Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, a predispute arbitration agreement shall have no force or effect with respect to a sexual assault claim.   (b)  Related claims  (1)  In general  Subject to paragraph (2), and notwithstanding any other provision of this title, a predispute arbitration agreement shall have no force or effect with respect to a claim asserted by a sexual assault victim that is based upon that sexual assault.  (2)  Sexual assault claim dismissed  (A)  In general  If a court dismisses with prejudice a sexual assault claim that, but for subsection (a), would have been subject to a predispute arbitration agreement—   (i)  the court shall dismiss any other claim that, but for paragraph (1) of this subsection, would have been subject to a predispute arbitration agreement; and  (ii)  the relevant predispute arbitration agreement shall apply with respect to any claim dismissed under clause (i).  (B)  Tolling  Any time period under a predispute arbitration agreement that is applicable to a claim dismissed under subparagraph (A)(i) shall be tolled during the period during which the claim was pending before a Federal court.   (c)  Applicability  An issue as to whether this chapter applies to an arbitration agreement or a claim shall be determined under Federal law. The applicability of this chapter to an agreement to arbitrate or a claim and the force or effect of an agreement to which this chapter applies shall be determined by a court, rather than an arbitrator, irrespective of whether the party resisting arbitration challenges the arbitration agreement specifically or in conjunction with other terms of the contract containing such agreement. 
 .  (b)  Technical and conforming amendments  (1)  In general  Title 9 of the United States Code is amended—  (A) in section 2, by inserting  or as otherwise provided in chapter 4  before the period at the end; (B)  in section 208—  (i) in the section heading, by striking  Chapter 1; residual application  and inserting  Application ; and (ii) by adding at the end the following:  This chapter applies to the extent that this chapter is not in conflict with chapter 4. ; and (C)  in section 307—  (i) in the section heading, by striking  Chapter 1; residual application  and inserting  Application ; and (ii) by adding at the end the following:  This chapter applies to the extent that this chapter is not in conflict with chapter 4. . (2)  Table of sections  (A)  Chapter 2 The table of sections for  chapter 2  of title 9, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 208 and inserting the following: 208. Application.  .  (B)  Chapter 3 The table of sections for  chapter 3  of title 9, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 307 and inserting the following: 307. Application.  .  (3)  Table of chapters  The table of chapters for title 9, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:  4.  Arbitration of sexual assault claims  401  . 
 3.  Prospective effect  This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act and shall apply with respect to any claim that arises on or after such date. 
