
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Stranded Gas Recovery and Utilization Act of 2021 .
  2.  Establishment of credits for stranded gas extraction   (a)  Stranded gas infrastructure credit Subpart E of part IV of subchapter A of  chapter 1  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

 48E.  Stranded gas infrastructure credit 
 (a)  Amount of credit  For the purposes of section 46, the stranded gas infrastructure credit determined under this section for any taxable year is an amount equal to 30 percent of the basis of any qualified infrastructure placed in service by the taxpayer during such taxable year.   (b)  Qualified infrastructure  For the purposes of this section: 
 (1)  Qualified infrastructure The term  qualified infrastructure  means—  (A)  a gas pipeline, 
 (B)  a gas compressor station,   (C)  a container used for gas storage, or 
 (D)  equipment to store gas underground.   (2)  Gas The term  gas  means any gas used in a process relating to natural gas extraction, including natural gas and biproducts of natural gas.
 (c)  Application of section  This section shall apply to qualified infrastructure placed in service during a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2021, and before January 1, 2028. 
 .   (b)  Conforming amendment Section 46 is amended by striking  and  at the end of paragraph (5), by striking the period at the end of paragraph (6) and inserting  , and , and by adding at the end the following new paragraph: 

 (7)  the stranded gas infrastructure credit.  .   (c)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections for subpart E of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 of such Code is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 48C the following new item: 


 Sec. 48E. Stranded gas infrastructure credit.  . 
 (d)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to qualified infrastructure placed in service during a taxable year beginning after December 31, 2021. 
 