 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Community Immunity During COVID–19 Act of 2021 .
 2.  Grants to increase the rate of immunizations Section 317 of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 247b ) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: (n)  Grants To increase the rate of immunizations  (1)  In general  The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall make grants to covered health departments to increase the rate of recommended immunizations during the COVID–19 public health emergency.  (2)  Use of funds  A covered health department receiving a grant under this section may use funds received through the grant for the following:  (A)  Providing funds to programs that increase the rate of recommended immunizations during the COVID–19 public health emergency, including supporting evidence-based outreach and educational activities in communities served by the covered health department involved.  (B)   Supporting efforts by health care providers to communicate the importance of maintaining immunization schedules and visiting a primary care provider during the COVID–19 public health emergency.  (C)  Increasing awareness with respect to health insurance options and programs that reduce the cost of vaccines, including the Vaccines for Children program (or similar program) carried out by the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  (D)  Evaluating efforts to increase the rate of recommended immunizations in communities described in subparagraph (A) during the COVID–19 public health emergency.  (E)  Developing and distributing culturally and linguistically appropriate messages about the importance of recommended immunizations during the COVID–19 public health emergency, including vaccines licensed under section 351 of this Act to prevent, mitigate, or treat the virus that causes COVID–19.  (F)  Combating misinformation and disinformation with respect to the safety of vaccines, including a vaccine that will be licensed under section 351 of this Act to prevent, mitigate, or treat the virus that causes COVID–19.  (3)  Partnerships  A covered health department that receives a grant under this section may develop a partnership with entities and individuals in the communities served by the State, local, or Tribal government involved to carry out the activities under paragraph (2), including—  (A)  a health care provider;  (B)  a school nurse;  (C)  an organization that primarily provides health care or social services for—  (i)  groups that have a low rate of immunizations;  (ii)  individuals with a chronic health condition or underlying medical condition associated with increased risk for severe illness from COVID–19; or  (iii)  individuals with a limited proficiency in the English language;  (D)  a faith-based organization;  (E)  a long-term care facility, senior center, or other facility in which recommended immunizations for older adults may be provided or promoted by the staff of such facility or center;  (F)  a vaccine coalition;  (G)  a pediatric hospital;  (H)  a pharmacy;  (I)  a kindergarten, elementary, or secondary school; or  (J)  an institution of higher education.  (4)  Evaluation  Not later than 18 months after the date on which a covered health department receives a grant under this subsection, the covered health department shall submit to the Secretary an evaluation on the effectiveness of the activities carried out using such funds to increase the rate of recommended immunizations.  (5)  Report to Congress  Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this subsection, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report that includes—  (A)  an evaluation of the effectiveness of the activities under paragraph (2) to increase the rate of recommended immunizations, based on the evaluations submitted pursuant to paragraph (4); and  (B)  recommendations to increase the rate of recommended immunizations, including recommendations with respect to any public health emergency that occurs in the future.  (6)  Definitions  In this subsection:  (A)  Covered health department The term  covered health department  means the public health department of a State, local, or Tribal government. (B)  COVID–19 public health emergency The term  COVID–19 public health emergency  means the public health emergency declared by the Secretary under section 319 on January 31, 2020, with respect to COVID–19. (C)  Institution of higher education The term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given that term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001 ). (D)  Recommended immunizations The term  recommended immunizations  means immunizations recommended by the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention. (7)  Authorization of appropriations  (A)  In general  To carry out this subsection, there is authorized to be appropriated, $560,000,000 to remain available until expended.  (B)  Apportionment  In awarding grant funds under this subsection, the Secretary shall apportion the amounts appropriated pursuant to subparagraph (A) for a fiscal year, based on the population of the State, local, or Tribal government involved, as follows:  (i)  Not less than 50 percent of such funds to State and Tribal public health departments.  (ii)  Not less than 50 percent of such funds to local health departments.  . 
 3.  COVID–19 vaccine guidance  (a)  In general Not later than 3 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (in this section referred to as the  Director ), in consultation with the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices and the Administrator of the Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services, shall develop and distribute to health care providers and State education agencies guidance to provide health counseling services with respect to a vaccine licensed under section 351 of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 262 ) for the prevention, mitigation, or treatment of COVID–19. (b)  Content  The guidance developed pursuant to subsection (a) shall—  (1)  be aligned with evidence-based practices; and  (2)  include information that is culturally appropriate.  (c)  Update  The Director shall periodically update and distribute, as appropriate, the guidance developed pursuant to subsection (a).  (d)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section, $2,500,000 to remain available until expended. 
