 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Congressional and Executive Foreign Lobbying Ban Act .
 2.  Prohibiting certain individuals from acting as agents of foreign principals  (a)  Former Members of Congress; general or flag officers of armed forces  (1)  Prohibiting registration as agent The Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended ( 22 U.S.C. 611 et seq. ) is amended— (A)  by redesignating sections 12 through 14 as sections 13 through 15; and  (B)  by inserting after section 11 the following new section:  12.  Prohibiting registration of certain individuals  (a)  Prohibition  No individual may register under this Act or otherwise serve as the agent of a foreign principal if the individual at any time served as a Member of Congress, as a senior political appointee, or as a general or flag officer of the armed forces.  (b)  Definitions  In this section—  (1) the term  Member of Congress  means a Senator or Representative in, or Delegate or Resident Commissioner to, the Congress; and (2) the term  senior political appointee — (A)  means—  (i)  any individual occupying a full-time senior position and who is appointed by the President or the Vice President;  (ii)  any noncareer appointee in the Senior Executive Service (or other SES-type system); and  (iii)  any appointee to a position, at or above the level of a noncareer member of the Senior Executive Service, that has been excepted from the competitive service by reason of being of a confidential or policymaking character (schedule C and other positions excepted under comparable criteria) in an executive agency; and  (B)  does not include any individual appointed as a member of the Senior Foreign Service or, except for a general or flag officer of the armed forces, solely as a uniformed service commissioned officer. 
 .  (2)  Other representation of foreign entities Section 207(f)(1) of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  within 1 year  the following: (or, in the case of a person who is subject to any of such restrictions and who is a Member of Congress, a senior political appointee (as that term is defined in section 12 of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended ( 22 U.S.C. 611 et seq. )), or a general or flag officer of the armed forces, at any time). (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to any individual whose service as a Member of Congress or as a general or flag officer of the armed forces terminates on or after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
