 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Cahokia Mounds Mississippian Culture National Historical Park Act .
 2.  Cahokia Mounds Mississippian Culture National Historical Park, Illinois and Missouri  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Historical park The term  historical park  means the Cahokia Mounds Mississippian Culture National Historical Park established by subsection (b). (2)  Map The term  map  means the map entitled  Cahokia Mounds Mississippian Culture National Historical Park, Boundary , numbered CMMC–NHP–107, and dated 05–31–2019. (3)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior. (4)  State The term  States  means the States of Illinois and Missouri. (b)  Establishment  (1)  In general  Subject to paragraph (2), in order to preserve and interpret for the benefit of present and future generations the historical, cultural, and natural resources associated with the life of the Mississippian Culture as well as access for American Indian spiritual practices and expressions, there is established, as a unit of the National Park System, the Cahokia Mounds Mississippian Culture National Historical Park in Collinsville, Illinois, and Monroe, Madison, and St. Clair Counties, Illinois, and St. Louis City County, Missouri.  (2)  Determination by Secretary  The historical park shall not be established until the date on which the Secretary determines that a sufficient quantity of land, or interests in land, has been acquired to constitute a manageable unit.  (3)  Notice  Not later than 30 days after the date on which the Secretary acquires the land under subparagraph (B), the Secretary shall publish in the Federal Register notice of the establishment of the historical park.  (4)  Availability of map  The map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.  (c)  Boundary  The boundary of the historical park shall be the boundary as depicted on the map.   (d)  Land acquisition  The Secretary may acquire land and interests in land within the boundary of the historical park by donation, purchase from a willing seller with donated or appropriated funds, or exchange, except that land owned by the States or their political subdivisions may be acquired only by donation.   (e)  Administration  (1)  In general  The Secretary shall administer the historical park in accordance with this section and the laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System, including—  (A)  section 100101(a), chapter 1003, and sections 100751(a), 100752, 100753 and 102101 of title 54, United States Code (formerly known as the National Park System Organic Act); and  (B)  chapter 3201  of title 54, United States Code (formerly known as the Act of August 21, 1935). (2)  Cooperative agreements  (A)  In general  The Secretary may enter into cooperative agreements with the States and their political subdivisions, colleges and universities, non-profit organizations, Indian Tribes, and individuals—  (i)  to mark, interpret, and restore nationally significant historic or cultural and natural resources relating to the life of the Mississippian Culture within the boundaries of the historical park, if the agreement provides for reasonable public access; and  (ii)  to conduct research relating to the Mississippian Culture.  (B)  Cost-sharing  (i)  Federal share  The Federal share of the total cost of any activity carried out under this paragraph shall not exceed 50 percent.  (ii)  Form of non-Federal share  The non-Federal share of the cost of carrying out an activity under this paragraph may be in the form of in-kind contributions or goods or services fairly valued.  (f)  General management plan  (1)  In general  Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are made available to carry out this section, the Secretary shall prepare a general management plan for the historical park in accordance with section 100502 of title 54, United States Code.  (2)  Consultation  In preparing the General Management Plan, the Secretary shall consult with the States and their political subdivisions, colleges and universities, non-profit organizations, Indian Tribes, and individuals, including—  (A)  the Illinois Department of Natural Resources;  (B)  the Osage Tribe; and  (C)  HeartLands Conservancy. 
