
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  South Asian Heart Health Awareness and Research Act of 2021 .
  2.  Heart health promotion grants Title III of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 241 et seq. ) is amended by inserting after section 317U ( 42 U.S.C. 247b–23 ) the following new section:

 317V.  Heart health promotion grants 
 (a)  In general  The Secretary shall make grants to States for the purpose of promoting awareness of the increasing prevalence of heart disease, including, where appropriate, its relationship to type 2 diabetes, in communities disproportionately affected by heart disease such as South Asian communities in the United States.   (b)  Use of funds  A State that receives a grant under subsection (a) shall use such grant funds— 
 (1)  to develop culturally appropriate materials on evidence-based topics such as nutrition education, optimal diet plans, and programs for regular exercise;   (2)  to support heart health promotion activities of community organizations that work with or serve communities disproportionately affected by heart disease, such as South Asian communities in the United States; or 
 (3)  to support conferences or workshops on research practices, methodology, and design to include more members of communities disproportionately affected by heart disease, such as South Asian communities in the United States, in scientific studies.   (c)  Annual report to congress Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of the  South Asian Heart Health Awareness and Research Act of 2021 , and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report on outreach efforts and data relating to heart disease in communities disproportionately affected by heart disease, such as South Asian communities in the United States.
 (d)  Authorization of appropriations  For purposes of carrying out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026. 
 . 
  3.  Heart health research Part B of title IV of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 284 et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

 409K.  Heart health research 
 (a)  In general  The Secretary may—   (1)  conduct or support research and related activities regarding cardiovascular disease, type 2 diabetes, and other heart health-related ailments among at-risk populations, including South Asian communities in the United States; and 
 (2)  establish an internet clearinghouse to catalog existing evidence-based heart health research and treatment options for communities disproportionately affected by heart disease, such as South Asian communities in the United States, to prevent, treat, or reverse heart disease and diabetes.   (b)  Authorization of appropriations  For purposes of carrying out this section, there is authorized to be appropriated $1,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026. 
 . 

