 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Rural Forest Markets Act of 2021 .
 2.  Rural forest market investment program  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Rural The term  rural  has the meaning given the term in section 343 of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act ( 7 U.S.C. 1991 ). (2)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Agriculture. (b)  Establishment of program  (1)  In general The Secretary shall establish a program, to be known as the  Rural Forest Market Investment Program , to guarantee an environmental impact bond, loan, or other investment vehicle, as determined by the Secretary, issued for the sole purpose of financing eligible projects described in subsection (c), to enable rural private forest landowners to participate in an innovative market for forest carbon or other products. (2)  Consideration  In establishing the program under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall consider ways to ensure that the program minimizes, to the extent practicable, disruptions to traditional forest products markets.  (c)  Eligible projects  An eligible project referred to in subsection (b)(1) is a project developed by private entity, or a publicly supported, charitable nonprofit organization, engaged in the aggregation of sustainable forestry practices implemented by rural private forest landowners to facilitate the sale of credits in the voluntary carbon market or other environmental market, using a methodology approved by a credible, third-party entity, as determined by the Secretary.  (d)  Requirements  A project described in subsection (c) that includes the practice of tree planting may only be carried out, as determined by the Secretary—  (1)  on land that was historically forested;  (2)  using tree species that are native to the region and at ecologically appropriate densities; and  (3)  in a manner that does not create other negative impacts to biodiversity or the environment.  (e)  Guarantee amount  The Secretary may guarantee not more than $150,000,000 with respect to each bond, loan, or other investment vehicle under subsection (b)(1).  (f)  Regulations  Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue regulations to implement the program established under subsection (b)(1).  (g)  Termination of authority  The authority provided by this section terminates on September 30, 2023. 
