 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Lebanon TPS Act of 2021 .
 2.  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1)  On August 4, 2020, one of the most powerful explosions ever to impact an urban population ripped through the Lebanese capital of Beirut. The blast—linked to 2,750 metric tons of ammonium nitrate stored in a warehouse—killed at least 220 people, wounded approximately 7,000, left an estimated 300,000 people homeless, and caused approximately $15,000,000,000 in property damage.  (2)  The COVID–19 pandemic has taken a heavy toll on Lebanon, which has recorded over 628,000 cases and 8,400 deaths since the pandemic began. Lebanon’s public health system, already weakened by the Beirut disaster and political upheaval, has struggled to cope in the face of the pandemic.  (3)  While progress has been made towards a return to political normalcy, Lebanon lacked a fully formed government for much of the COVID–19 pandemic and the political establishment remains highly polarized and divided.  (4)  Lebanon has been experiencing one of the worst economic crises in its history at the same time as the COVID–19 pandemic, Beirut Port explosion, and political crisis.  (5)  According to the United Nations, up to 78 percent of the Lebanese population (3,000,000 people) were living in poverty as of March 2021.  (6)  Per the United Nations, 36 percent of the Lebanese population (1,380,000 people) are experiencing extreme poverty.  (7)  Since October 2019, the Lebanese pound has lost 90 percent of its value, resulting in a year-on-year inflation rate of more than 120 percent from May 2020 to May 2021.  (8)  Food prices have skyrocketed, increasing 400 percent in 2020 alone.  (9)  In July 2021, the United Nations Children’s Fund (UNICEF) warned that Lebanon’s water system is on the verge of collapse, with more than 70 percent of the country facing critical water shortages. In January 2019, 1,000 Lebanese pounds bought 4 liters of water. By August 2021, it only bought half a liter.  (10)  Dire fuel shortages plague Lebanon, leading the American University of Beirut Medical Center, Beirut’s top hospital and one of the leading medical centers in the region, to issue a warning in August 2021 that hundreds of patients would die if they failed to secure enough fuel to keep their generators running.  (11)  The combined crises have strained many of Lebanon’s public institutions to the breaking point, including the Lebanese Army, whose budget and soldiers’ salaries have been devastated by the devaluation of the Lebanese Pound.  (12)  On October 14, 2021, gunmen fired on a crowd of protestors gathered near the Beirut Justice Palace sparking heavy armed clashes in nearby neighborhoods. The ensuing fighting killed at least seven individuals and wounded more than 30 others. As of October 28, 2021, 68 people have been charged with murder, attempted murder, stirring sectarian strife, possession of illicit war weapons, and destroying private and public property.  (13)  Tensions remain extremely high as the investigation into the clashes is still ongoing leading to fears of further violence and instability.  (14)  Numerous residents of Beirut living in the vicinity of the clashes have been quoted by domestic and international media comparing the October 14th clashes and ongoing tensions to the devastating 1975–1990 Lebanese civil war, reflecting well-founded fears of the potential for a return to significant sectarian violence.  (15)  The United States has long stood with the Lebanese people in times of need and standing with them now is both morally right and in line with our national interests.  (16)  President Biden’s pledge of an additional $98,000,000 in aid to Lebanon on the first anniversary of the Beirut Port explosion was a good first step in supporting the Lebanese people, and designating Lebanon for Temporary Protected Status (TPS) is the logical next step given the circumstances.  (17)  Lebanon needs significant continued international support to prevent the worsening of its economic, social, political, and public health crises and to rebuild from this period of extraordinary difficulty for the Lebanese people.  (18) A country is designated for TPS when it is determined by the United States Government that it is unsafe for its citizens to return to due to  ongoing armed conflict ,  environmental disaster , or  extraordinary and temporary conditions in the foreign state that prevent aliens who are nationals of the state from returning to the state in safety . (19)  The combined crises facing Lebanon amount to extraordinary and temporary conditions that prevent Lebanese nationals from safely returning to Lebanon. Any returned individual would have to contend without access to clean water, adequate healthcare, and affordable basic necessities—all in the face of the very real threat of significant political violence. After years of uncertainty, these individuals deserve stability and temporary relief in the United States. 
 3.  Designation for purposes of granting temporary protected status  (a)  Designation  (1)  In general For purposes of section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1254a ), Lebanon shall be treated as if it had been designated under subsection (b)(1)(A) of that section, subject to the provisions of this section. (2)  Period of designation  The initial period of the designation referred to in paragraph (1) shall be for the 18-month period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.  (b)  Aliens eligible As a result of the designation made under subsection (a), an alien who is a national of Lebanon is deemed to satisfy the requirements under paragraph (1) of section 244(c) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1254a(c) ), subject to paragraph (3) of such section, if the alien— (1)  has been continuously physically present in the United States since the date of the enactment of this Act;  (2)  is admissible as an immigrant, except as otherwise provided in paragraph (2)(A) of such section, and is not ineligible for temporary protected status under paragraph (2)(B) of such section; and  (3)  registers for temporary protected status in a manner established by the Secretary of Homeland Security.  (c)  Consent To travel abroad  (1)  In general The Secretary of Homeland Security shall give prior consent to travel abroad, in accordance with section 244(f)(3) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1254a(f)(3) ), to an alien who is granted temporary protected status pursuant to the designation made under subsection (a) if the alien establishes to the satisfaction of the Secretary of Homeland Security that emergency and extenuating circumstances beyond the control of the alien require the alien to depart for a brief, temporary trip abroad. (2)  Treatment upon return An alien returning to the United States in accordance with an authorization described in paragraph (1) shall be treated as any other returning alien provided temporary protected status under section 244 of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1254a ).
 4.  Determination of Budgetary Effects The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled  Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation  for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
