 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Fly Vets Act . 
 2.  Improvements to assistance provided for certain flight training and other programs of education  (a)  Use of entitlement for private pilot’s licenses  Section 3034(d) of title 38, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in paragraph (1) by striking the semicolon and inserting the following:  and is required for the course of education being pursued (including with respect to a dual major, concentration, or other element a degree); and ; (2)  by striking paragraph (2); and  (3)  by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2).  (b)  Accelerated payments for flight training  Section 3313 of such title is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection:  (m)  Accelerated payments for certain flight training  (1)  Payments  An individual enrolled in a program of education pursued at an institution of higher learning in which flight training is required to earn the degree being pursued (including with respect to a dual major, concentration, or other element of such a degree) may elect to receive accelerated payments of amounts for tuition and fees determined under subsection (c). The amount of each accelerated payment shall be an amount equal to twice the amount for tuition and fee so determined under such subsection, but the total amount of such payments may not exceed the total amount of tuition and fees for the program of education. The amount of monthly stipends shall be determined in accordance with such subsection (c) and may not be accelerated under this paragraph.  (2)  Educational counseling  An individual may make an election under paragraph (1) only if the individual receives educational counseling under section 3697A(a) of this title.  (3)  Charge against entitlement  The number of months of entitlement charged an individual for accelerated payments made pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be determined at the rate of two months for each month in which such an accelerated payment is made.  .  (c)  Flight training at public institutions  Subsection (c)(1)(A) of such section 3313 is amended—  (1)  in clause (i)—  (A)  by redesignating subclauses (I) and (II) as items (aa) and (bb), respectively;  (B) by striking  In the case of a program of education pursued at a public institution of higher learning  and inserting  (I) Subject to subclause (II), in the case of a program of education pursued at a public institution of higher learning not described in clause (ii)(II)(bb) ; and (C)  by adding at the end the following new subclause:  (II)  In determining the actual net cost for in-State tuition and fees pursuant to subclause (I), the Secretary may not pay for tuition and fees relating to flight training.  ; and  (2)  in clause (ii)—  (A)  in subclause (I), by redesignating items (aa) and (bb) as subitems (AA) and (BB), respectively;  (B)  in subclause (II), by redesignating items (aa) and (bb) as subitems (AA) and (BB), respectively;  (C)  by redesignating subclauses (I) and (II) as items (aa) and (bb), respectively;  (D) by striking  In the case of a program of education pursued at a non-public or foreign institution of higher learning  and inserting  (I) In the case of a program of education described in subclause (II) ; and (E)  by adding at the end the following new subclause:  (II)  A program of education described in this subclause is any of the following:  (aa)  A program of education pursued at a non-public or foreign institution of higher learning.  (bb)  A program of education pursued at a public institution of higher learning in which flight training is required to earn the degree being pursued (including with respect to a dual major, concentration, or other element of such a degree).  .  (d)  Certain programs of education carried out under contract  Section 3313(c)(1)(A)(ii)(II) of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsection (c)(2)(E), is amended by adding at the end the following new item:  (cc)  A program of education pursued at a public institution of higher learning in which the public institution of higher learning enters into a contract or agreement with an entity (other than another public institution of higher learning) to provide such program of education or a portion of such program of education.  .  (e)  Application  (1)  In general  Except as provided by paragraph (2), the amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to a quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, commencing on or after the date of the enactment of this Act.  (2)  Special rule for current students In the case of an individual who, as of the date of the enactment of this Act, is using educational assistance under  chapter 33  of title 38, United States Code, to pursue a course of education that includes a program of education described in item (bb) or (cc) of section 3313(c)(1)(A)(ii)(II) of title 38, United States Code, as added by subsections (c) and (d), respectively, the amendment made by such subsection shall apply with respect to a quarter, semester, or term, as applicable, commencing on or after the date that is two years after the date of the enactment of this Act.
