 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  30 x 30 Termination Act .
 2.  30x30 program nullification  (a)  No force or effect  Section 216 of Executive Order 14008 (86 Fed. Reg. 7619, relating to Tackling the Climate Crisis at Home and Abroad) shall have no force or effect.  (b)  No Federal funds  No Federal funds may be used to implement, administer, enforce, or carry out any report or program substantially similar to the section referred to in subsection (a). 
 3.  No-net loss of non-Federal land  No Federal funds may be used to acquire non-Federal land within a State or county in which 15 percent or more of the land is managed by a Federal agency, unless the Federal agency proposing the acquisition disposes of an equal amount of Federal land within the impacted State or county to ensure no net-loss of non-Federal land and taxable acreage within the same fiscal year as the proposed acquisition and thereafter. 
 4.  No-net loss of multiple use  No Federal funds may be used to be used to implement, administer, enforce, or carry out any action on Federal land that results in a net-loss of multiple use or any principle or major use within a State, unless such action has been authorized by Federal statute. 
 5.  Prohibition on withdrawal  The President may not withdraw any Federal land from forms of entry, appropriation, or disposal under public land laws, location, entry, and patent under the mining laws, or disposition under laws pertaining to mineral and geothermal leasing or mineral materials unless the withdrawal has been authorized by Federal statute. 
 6.  Limitations on declarations of national monuments  Section 320301 of title 54, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:  (e)  Limitations on declarations  A declaration under this section shall not apply to State or county in which 15 percent or more of the land is managed by a Federal agency.  . 
 7.  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Federal land  (A)  In general The term  Federal land  means— (i)  National Forest System land;  (ii) public lands (as defined in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ( 43 U.S.C. 1702 ));  (iii) the outer Continental Shelf (as defined in section 2 of the Outer Continental Shelf Lands Act ( 43 U.S.C. 1331 )); and (iv)  Federal land with an Exclusive Economic Zone (as defined in Proclamation Numbered 5030, dated March 10, 1983)).  (B)  Clarification The term  Federal land  includes land described in clauses (i) through (iv) of subparagraph (A) where the rights to the surface estate or subsurface estate is owned by a non-Federal entity. (2)  Multiple use The term  multiple use  has the meaning given that term in section 103 of the Federal Land Policy and Management Act of 1976 ( 43 U.S.C. 1702 )). (3)  Principal or major uses The term  principal or major uses  includes uses such as domestic livestock grazing, mineral exploration and production, rights-of-way, timber production, commercial fishing, recreational fishing, hunting, camping, hiking, mountain biking, horseback riding, whitewater rafting, and off-highway vehicle use, and other outdoor recreation.
