
 1.  Short title; findings 
 (a)  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Prevent Restrictions On Volunteers’ Incomes During Emergencies Act  or the  PROVIDE Act .   (b)  Findings  The Congress finds that— 
 (1)  volunteers are essential during national disasters and emergencies;   (2)  in times of these disasters and emergencies, residents from one State may aid those in a different State and provide necessary assistance; 
 (3)  assistance from across State lines may continue for many weeks or months; and   (4)  therefore, it is in the interest of Congress to ensure that those who volunteer in a State in which they do not reside are not burdened by an unfair income tax. 

 2.  Ineligibility for Federal financial assistance for jurisdictions that tax volunteers during an emergency  Beginning with fiscal year 2020, any State or local government which taxes the income of an out-of-State individual that has traveled to such State for the purpose of volunteering or otherwise providing assistance in response to a Federally declared disaster or emergency during the emergency period shall be ineligible to receive Federal financial assistance (as such term is defined in section 7501(a)(5) of title 31, United States Code). 
  3.  Definitions  In this Act: 
 (1)  Emergency period The term  emergency period  means the period of time in which a Federally declared disaster or emergency is in effect.   (2)  Federally declared disaster or emergency The term  Federally declared disaster or emergency  means any disaster or emergency declared by the President of the United States or the Secretary of Health and Human Services in accordance with Federal law.
 (3)  Local government The term  local government  means a county, city, town, village, or other general purpose political subdivision, instrumentality, or authority of a State.  (4)  State The term  State  means each of the 50 States and the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, and Indian Tribes.

