 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as  Canyon’s Law .
 2.  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1) Sodium cyanide is the highly toxic pesticide active ingredient used in M–44 devices, also known as  cyanide bombs , and is used to kill wolves, coyotes, foxes, and wild dogs suspected of preying on livestock and poultry. (2) Sodium cyanide is registered for restricted use under the Federal Insecticide, Fungicide, and Rodenticide Act ( 7 U.S.C. 136 et seq. ) as a Category One acute toxicant, the most hazardous Environmental Protection Agency classification available, due to the harm it poses to people and the environment. (3)  Poisoning by sodium cyanide leads to central nervous system depression, cardiac arrest, respiratory failure, paralysis, and blindness.  (4)  The Environmental Protection Agency authorizes the use of M–44 devices nationwide, and in recent years, M–44s were used in Colorado, Idaho, North Dakota, Nebraska, New Mexico, Nevada, Oklahoma, Texas, Utah, Virginia, West Virginia, and Wyoming.  (5)  In 2017, an M–44 device exposed an Idaho child to a sublethal dose of sodium cyanide with subsequent short-term and long-term medical complications. Two Wyoming children were also exposed to the poison from another M–44 device. Three family dogs died in these two separate incidents.  (6)  The indiscriminate M–44 device commonly harms nontarget wildlife and people; at least 42 people have accidentally triggered a cyanide bomb causing exposure to cyanide gas and injuries since 1984.  (7)  M–44 devices kill targeted animals only 53 percent of the time. Thousands of nontarget species of animals have been killed by M–44s, including bald eagles, golden eagles, gray wolves, black bears, grizzly bears, bobcats, fishers, and family dogs.  (8)  Despite the United States Fish and Wildlife Service determining in 1993 that M–44 devices could kill endangered species like the California Condor, the use of the M–44 continues in areas where endangered species are found and continues to result in the deaths of endangered species. 
 3.  Use of M–44 devices on public land prohibited  (a)  In general  Preparing, placing, installing, setting, deploying, or otherwise using an M–44 device on public land is prohibited.  (b)  Removal  Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, any Federal, State, or county agency that has prepared, placed, installed, set, or deployed an M–44 device on public land shall remove each such M–44 device from public land.   (c)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  M–44 device  (A)  In general The term  M–44 device  means a device designed to propel sodium cyanide when triggered by an animal. (B)  Common names The term  M–44 device  includes any device that may be commonly known as an  M–44 ejector device  or an  M–44 predator control device .  (2)  Public land The term  public land  means any Federal land under the administrative jurisdiction of a public land management agency. (3)  Public land management agency The term  public land management agency  means each of, or a combination of, the following: (A)  The National Park Service.  (B)  The United States Fish and Wildlife Service.  (C)  The Bureau of Land Management.  (D)  The Bureau of Reclamation.  (E)  The Forest Service. 
