 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Clean Up Our Neighborhoods Act of 2021 .
 2.  Blight elimination and neighborhood revitalization grants  (a)  Authority  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development may make grants under this section, on a competitive basis, to States for use for eligible activities under subsection (c)(1) designed to eliminate blight and promote neighborhood revitalization.  (b)  Use in New Market Tax Credit areas  Amounts from a grant under this section may be used only to carry out eligible activities under subsection (c)(1) within low-income communities, as such term if defined in subsection (g).  (c)  Eligible activities  (1)  In general  Amounts from a grant under this section may be used only for the following activities:  (A)  Demolition, clearance, and removal of blighted structures.  (B)  Boarding of vacant properties and blighted structures.  (C)  Deconstruction of structures.  (D)  Removal of waste and site clearance and vacant land management.  (E)  Stabilization activities in connection with providing vacant, open green space for the purpose of public access and redevelopment, including greening projects, and associated maintenance activities, including mowing.  (F)  Renovation of existing structures, except that not more than 30 percent of any grant under this section may be used for such activities.  (2)  Use of amounts by local governments  A grantee State may use amounts from a grant under this Act to carry out eligible activities under paragraph (1) or may provide such amounts to land banks or units of general local government within the State whose jurisdictions include low-income communities for use to carry out such eligible activities within such low-income communities.  (3)  Priority for land banks  In areas where land banks exist, a grantee State shall give priority, in the use of amounts from a grant under this Act, to eligible activities that will be carried out by land banks, in accordance with such requirements as the Secretary shall establish.  (4)  Prohibition  Amounts from a grant under this section may not be used to acquire any occupied residential dwelling unit.  (d)  Matching requirement  (1)  In general  The Secretary shall require each State that receives a grant under this section to contribute, toward carrying out the plan for the State under subsection (e)(2), an amount of matching funds from non-Federal sources that is equal to or greater than 15 percent of the amount of the grant.  (2)  Use of sale proceeds  Any proceeds from sales of properties renovated pursuant to subsection (c)(1)(F) may be counted toward compliance with the requirement under paragraph (1).  (e)  Application and plan  (1)  Application  A grant under this section may only be provided to a State that submits to the Secretary an application for such a grant that contains a plan for use of grant funds in accordance with paragraph (2) and such other information, certifications, and assurances as the Secretary considers necessary to provide for selection of States in accordance with the process and criteria under subsection (f).  (2)  Plan  A plan under this paragraph shall be a detailed 5-year plan for the use of grant amounts under this section and matching amounts contributed pursuant to subsection (d) that includes—  (A)  identification of the low-income communities in which eligible activities under subsection (c)(1) will be carried out using grant and matching amounts;  (B)  a description of the eligible activities under subsection (c)(1) to be carried out using grant and matching amounts;  (C)  a timetable for carrying out such eligible activities, which shall provide for the expenditure of grant and matching amounts within 5 years after receipt; and  (D)  identification of the sources of matching amounts to be provided in accordance with subsection (d) and assurances of the availability of such matching amounts.  (f)  Selection; criteria  The Secretary shall select applications to receive grants under this section pursuant to a competition and based on criteria as established by the Secretary for such selection.  (g)  Definitions  For purposes of this section, the following definitions shall apply:  (1)  Land bank The term  land bank  means— (A)  a land bank, as such term is defined under State law; and  (B)  with respect to any State for which the laws of such State do not explicitly define such term, any publicly or community-owned entity established for the purpose of reducing or preventing blight by acquiring, managing, maintaining, and re-purposing vacant, abandoned, and foreclosed properties, including abandoned houses and buildings and empty lots.  (2)  Low-income community The term  low-income community  has the meaning given such term in  section 45D  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 ( 26 U.S.C. 45D ) and includes any census tract or other area that is treated as a low-income community for purposes of such section. (3)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. (4)  State The term  State  means each of the several States, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, the Virgin Islands, Guam, American Samoa, the Northern Mariana Islands, the Trust Territory of the Pacific Islands, and any other territory or possession of the United States. (5)  Structure The term  structure  includes residential structures and commercial structures. (h)  Regulations  The Secretary shall issue any regulations necessary to carry out this section.  (i)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for grants under this section for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2027. 
