 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  End the Draft Act .
 2.  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1)  Since 1973, the Armed Forces have relied on an all-volunteer force and do not require military conscription to fill personnel requirements.  (2)  The Selective Service System is an independent Federal agency, with an annual budget of approximately $26,000,000, and is responsible for maintaining a database of registrants in case a draft is reinstated.  (3)  Under current law, most men between the ages of 18 and 26 who are citizens or residents of the United States are required to register with the Selective Service System.  (4)  Men who fail to register with the Selective Service System are subject to penalties, including criminal penalties and the loss of eligibility for certain Federal and State benefits.  (5)  The United States has not used the draft for induction into the Armed Forces in nearly five decades.  (6)  The United States has only used conscription for 35 of its 245 years of existence.  (7)  The all-volunteer force has been used in military conflicts since 1973, including Operation Desert Storm, Operation Iraqi Freedom, and Operation Enduring Freedom.  (8)  The all-volunteer Armed Forces are the most professional and capable military in the world. 
 3.  Repeal of Military Selective Service Act  (a)  Repeal The Military Selective Service Act ( 50 U.S.C. 3801 et seq. ) is repealed. (b)  Transfers in connection with repeal Notwithstanding the proviso in section 10(a)(4) of the Military Selective Service Act ( 50 U.S.C. 3809(a)(4) ), the Office of Selective Service Records shall not be reestablished upon the repeal of the Act. Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the assets, contracts, property, and records held by the Selective Service System, and the unexpended balances of any appropriations available to the Selective Service System, shall be transferred to the Administrator of General Services upon the repeal of the Act. The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall assist officers and employees of the Selective Service System to transfer to other positions in the executive branch.
