 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Burn Pit Program to Review Operations and Management of ILER System Efficacy Act  or the  Burn Pit PROMISE Act .
 2.  GAO biennial study on Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record program  (a)  Studies and reports required  Not later than December 31, 2022, and once every two years thereafter until December 31, 2030, the Comptroller General of the United States shall—  (1)  conduct a study on the implementation and effectiveness of the Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record program of the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs; and  (2)  submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report containing the findings of the most recently conducted study.  (b)  Elements  The biennial studies under subsection (a) shall include an assessment of elements as follows:  (1)  Initial study  The initial study conducted under subsection (a) shall assess, at a minimum, the following:  (A)  Statistics relating to use of the Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record program, including the total number of individuals the records of whom are contained therein and the total number of records accessible under the program.  (B)  Costs associated with the program, including any cost overruns associated with the program.  (C)  The capacity to expand the program to include the medical records of veterans who served prior to the establishment of the program.  (D)  Any illness recently identified as relating to a toxic exposure (or any guidance relating to such an illness recently issued) by either the Secretary of Defense or the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, including any such illness or guidance that relates to open burn pit exposure.  (E)  How the program has enabled (or failed to enable) the discovery, notification, and medical care of individuals affected by an illness described in subparagraph (D).  (F)  Physician and patient feedback on the program, particularly feedback that relates to ease of use.  (G)  Cybersecurity and privacy protections of patient data stored under the program, including whether any classified or restricted data has been stored under the program (such as data relating to deployment locations or duty stations).  (H)  Any technical or logistical impediments to the implementation or expansion of the program, including any impediments to the inclusion in the program of databases or materials originally intended to be included.  (I)  Any issues relating to read-only access to data under the program by veterans.  (J)  Any issues relating to the interoperability of the program between the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs.  (2)  Subsequent studies  Except as provided in paragraph (3), each study conducted under subsection (a) following the initial study specified in paragraph (1) shall assess—  (A)  statistics relating to use of the Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record program, including the total number of individuals the records of whom are contained therein and the total number of records accessible under the program; and  (B)  such other elements as the Comptroller General determines appropriate, which may include any other element specified in paragraph (1).  (3)  Final study  The final study conducted under subsection (a) shall assess—  (A)  the elements specified in subparagraphs (A), (B), (D), (E), (F), and (H) of paragraph (1); and  (B)  such other elements as the Comptroller General determines appropriate, which may include any other element specified in paragraph (1).  (c)  Access by Comptroller General  (1)  Information and materials  Upon request of the Comptroller General, the Secretary of Defense and the Secretary of Veterans Affairs shall make available to the Comptroller General any information or other materials necessary for the conduct of each biennial study under subsection (a).  (2)  Interviews  In addition to such other authorities as are available, the Comptroller General shall have the right to interview officials and employees of the Department of Defense and the Department of Veterans Affairs (including clinicians, claims adjudicators, and researchers) as necessary for the conduct of each biennial study under subsection (a).  (3)  Information from patients and former patients  (A)  Development of questionnaire  In carrying out each biennial study under subsection (a), the Comptroller General may develop a questionnaire for individuals the records of whom are contained in the Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record, to obtain the information necessary for the conduct of the study.  (B)  Distribution  The Secretary concerned shall ensure that any questionnaire developed pursuant to subparagraph (A) is distributed to individuals the records of whom are contained in the Individual Longitudinal Exposure Record.  (d)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1) The term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (A)  the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the House of Representatives; and  (B)  the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Veterans’ Affairs of the Senate.  (2) The term  Secretary concerned  means— (A)  the Secretary of Defense, with respect to matters concerning the Department of Defense; and  (B)  the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, with respect to matters concerning the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
