 1.  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1)  Fighter propulsion is one of the few areas in which the United States maintains a clear advantage over near-peer adversaries, specifically China and its threat to the Indo-Pacific region.  (2)  The F–35 will be one of the key elements of the frontline fighter forces of the military services and United States allies and partners for decades to come.  (3)  Failure to develop an adaptive cycle engine and make it available for production on the F–35 would constitute a missed opportunity and open a door for United States adversaries to overtake fielded engine technology.  (4)  Maintaining a strong industrial base and competition is critical to supporting the National Defense Strategy. 
 2.  Adaptive engine transition program acquisition strategy for the F–35A aircraft  (a)  In general  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Air Force, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the integration of the Adaptive Engine Transition Program propulsion system into the F–35A aircraft.  (b)  Elements  The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following:  (1)  A competitive acquisition strategy, informed by fiscal considerations, to—  (A)  integrate the Adaptive Engine Transition Program propulsion system into the F–35A aircraft; and  (B)  begin, in fiscal year 2027, activities to retrofit all F–35A aircraft with such propulsion system.  (2)  An implementation plan to implement such strategy.  (3)  A schedule annotating pertinent milestones and yearly fiscal resource requirements for the implementation of such strategy. 
 3.  Advanced propulsion system acquisition strategy for the F–35B and F–35C aircraft  (a)  In general  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Navy, in consultation with the Under Secretary of Defense for Acquisition and Sustainment, shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report on the integration of an advanced propulsion system into F–35B and F–35C aircraft.  (b)  Elements  The report required under subsection (a) shall include the following:  (1)  An analysis of the effects of an advanced propulsion system on the combat effectiveness and sustainment costs of F–35B and F–35C aircraft, including any effects resulting from—  (A)  increased thrust, fuel efficiency, thermal capacity, and electrical generation; and  (B)  improvements in acceleration, speed, range, and overall mission effectiveness.  (2)  An assessment of how the integration of an advanced propulsion system may result in—  (A)  a reduction in dependency on support assets, including air refueling and replenishment tankers; and  (B)  an overall cost benefit to the Department from reduced acquisition and sustainment for such support assets.  (3)  A competitive acquisition strategy informed by fiscal considerations, the assessment of combat effectiveness under paragraph (1), and consideration of technical limitations—  (A)  to integrate an advanced propulsion system into F–35B aircraft and F–35C aircraft;  (B)  to begin, not later than fiscal year 2027, activities to produce all F–35B aircraft and all F–35C aircraft with such propulsion systems; and  (C)  to begin, not later than fiscal year 2027, activities to retrofit all F–35B aircraft and all F–35C aircraft with such propulsion systems.  (c)  Advanced propulsion system defined In this section, term  advanced propulsion system  means— (1)  a derivative of the propulsion system developed for the F–35 aircraft under the Adaptive Engine Transition Program of the Air Force; or  (2)  a derivative of a propulsion system previously developed for the F–35 aircraft. 
