 1.  Short title This Act may be referred to as the  Offshore Accountability Act of 2021 .
 2.  Reporting requirement  (a)  In general  Not more than 30 days after the discovery of an equipment failure of a critical system operated at an offshore oil or gas facility, the operator of such facility shall provide a written notice of such failure to the Secretary and the manufacturer of such equipment.  (b)  Investigation  (1)  Analysis report  Subject to subsection (d), an operator required to provide notice to the Secretary under subsection (a) shall ensure that an investigation and an equipment failure analysis are completed within 120 days of the failure to determine the cause of such failure. The operator shall provide an analysis report to the Secretary and to the manufacturer of such equipment documenting such investigation and any corrective action taken.  (2)  Publication  Not more than 30 days after receiving an analysis report submitted under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall make such analysis report available to the public on the Department of the Interior website.  (c)  Extension  An operator required to provide an analysis report under subsection (b) may request an extension of up to 60 days from the Secretary for such requirement by submitting a written request detailing how such operator will complete the investigation and report required by subsection (b). The Secretary shall review and respond to such request not later than 30 days after the date on which such request is submitted, and may not grant more than one such extension with respect to a single investigation and report.  (d)  Notice of change in equipment or procedures  An operator required to provide a notice under subsection (a) shall—  (1)  not more than 30 days after receiving notice from a manufacturer of any critical system that made changes in the design of a critical system as the result of the reported failure, report in writing such notice to the Secretary; and  (2)  not more than 30 days after a change in such operator’s operating or repair procedures as a result of the reported failure, report in writing such change to the Secretary.  (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Blowout preventer system The term  blowout preventer system  means a wellhead device or combination of devices that is specifically designed to prevent the uncontrolled release of gas, oil, or other fluids or hydrocarbons. (2)  Critical system The term  critical system  means safety and pollution prevention equipment or a blowout preventer system. (3)  Equipment failure The term  equipment failure  means any conditions that prevents equipment from meeting its functional specifications or purpose. (4)  Operator The term  operator  means the operator of an offshore oil or gas facility. (5)  Safety and pollution prevention equipment The term  safety and pollution prevention system  means any equipment that is specifically designed to prevent a malfunction or failure of an offshore well, resulting in injury or loss of life, damage to the environment, or serious damage to the equipment, including— (A)  surface safety valves and actuators;  (B)  boarding shutdown valves and the actuators of such valves;  (C)  underwater safety valves and actuators;  (D)  subsurface safety valves and associated safety valve locks and landing nipples; and  (E)  gas lift shutdown valves and actuators associated with such valves.  (6)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior.
