 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Developing Responsible Individuals for a Vibrant Economy Act  or the  DRIVE-SAFE Act . 
 2.  Apprenticeship program for commercial drivers under the age of 21  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Apprentice The term  apprentice  means an employee under the age of 21 who holds a commercial driver’s license required to operate a class of vehicles described in part 383 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations. (2)  Commercial driver's license The term  commercial driver's license  has the meaning given the term in section 31301 of title 49, United States Code. (3)  Commercial motor vehicle The term  commercial motor vehicle  means a commercial motor vehicle that meets the definition under paragraph (1) or (4) of the definition of the term  commercial motor vehicle  in section 390.5 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act). (4)  Driving time The term  driving time  has the meaning given the term in section 395.2 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act). (5)  Employee The term  employee  has the meaning given such term in section 31132 of title 49, United States Code. (6)  Employer The term  employer  has the meaning given such term in section 31132 of title 49, United States Code.  (7)  Experienced driver The term  experienced driver  means an individual who— (A)  is not less than 21 years of age;  (B)  has held a commercial driver’s license for the 2-year period ending on the date on which the individual serves as an experienced driver under subsection (c)(3)(B);  (C)  has had no preventable accidents reportable to the Department of Transportation or pointed moving violations during the 1-year period ending on the date on which the individual serves as an experienced driver under subsection (c)(3)(B); and  (D)  has a minimum of 2 years of experience driving a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce.  (8)  On-duty time The term  on-duty time  has the meaning given the term in section 395.2 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on the date of enactment of this Act). (9)  Pointed moving violation The term  pointed moving violation  means a violation that results in points being added to the license of a driver, or a similar comparable violation, as determined by the Secretary. (10)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Transportation. (b)  Apprentice  An apprentice may—  (1)  drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce while taking part in the 120-hour probationary period under subsection (c)(1) or the 280-hour probationary period under subsection (c)(2), pursuant to an apprenticeship program established by an employer in accordance with this section; and  (2)  drive a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce after the apprentice completes an apprenticeship program described in paragraph (1).  (c)  Apprenticeship program  An apprenticeship program referred to in subsection (b) is a program that consists of the following requirements:  (1)  120-hour probationary period  (A)  In general  The apprentice shall complete 120 hours of on-duty time, of which not less than 80 hours are driving time in a commercial motor vehicle.  (B)  Performance benchmarks  In order to complete the 120-hour probationary period under subparagraph (A), an employer shall determine that the apprentice is competent in each of the following areas:  (i)  Interstate, city traffic, rural 2-lane, and evening driving.  (ii)  Safety awareness.  (iii)  Speed and space management.  (iv)  Lane control.  (v)  Mirror scanning.  (vi)  Right and left turns.  (vii)  Logging and complying with rules relating to hours of service.  (2)  280-hour probationary period  (A)  In general  After completing the 120-hour probationary period under paragraph (1), the apprentice shall complete 280 hours of on-duty time, of which not less than 160 hours are driving time in a commercial motor vehicle.  (B)  Performance benchmarks  In order to complete the 280-hour probationary period under subparagraph (A), an employer shall determine that the apprentice is competent in each of the following areas:  (i)  Backing and maneuvering in close quarters.  (ii)  Pre-trip inspections.  (iii)  Fueling procedures.  (iv)  Weighing loads, weight distribution, and sliding tandems.  (v)  Coupling and uncoupling procedures.  (vi)  Trip planning, truck routes, map reading, navigation, and permits.  (3)  Restrictions for 120-hour and 280-hour probationary periods  During the 120-hour probationary period under paragraph (1) and the 280-hour probationary period under paragraph (2)—  (A)  the apprentice may only drive a commercial motor vehicle that has—  (i)  automatic manual or automatic transmissions;  (ii)  active braking collision mitigation systems;  (iii)  forward-facing video event capture; and  (iv)  governed speeds of 65 miles per hour at the pedal and 65 miles per hour under adaptive cruise control; and  (B)  the apprentice shall be accompanied in the cab of the commercial motor vehicle by an experienced driver.  (4)  Records retention  The employer shall maintain records, in a manner required by the Secretary, relating to the satisfaction of the requirements of paragraphs (1)(B) and (2)(B) by the apprentice.  (5)  Reportable incidents  If the apprentice is involved in a preventable accident reportable to the Department of Transportation or a pointed moving violation while driving a commercial motor vehicle as part of an apprenticeship program described in this subsection, the apprentice shall undergo remediation and additional training until the apprentice can demonstrate, to the satisfaction of the employer, competence in each of the performance benchmarks described in paragraphs (1)(B) and (2)(B).  (6)  Completion of program  The apprentice shall be considered to have completed the apprenticeship program on the date on which the apprentice completes the 280-hour probationary period under paragraph (2).  (7)  Minimum requirements  (A)  In general  Nothing in this Act prevents an employer from imposing additional requirements on an apprentice taking part in an apprenticeship program established pursuant to this section.  (B)  Technologies  Nothing in this Act prevents an employer from requiring or installing additional technologies in a commercial motor vehicle in addition to the technologies described in paragraph (3)(A).  (d)  Regulations  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall promulgate regulations to implement this Act.  (e)  No effect on license requirement  Nothing in this Act exempts an apprentice from any requirement to hold a commercial driver’s license in order to operate a commercial motor vehicle.  (f)  Employer responsibility  An employer shall not knowingly allow, require, permit, or authorize a driver under the age of 21 to operate a commercial motor vehicle in interstate commerce unless the driver is participating in or has completed an apprenticeship program that meets the requirements of subsection (c).  
