 1.  Findings  The Congress finds the following:  (1) Every day, the United States Capitol Police ( Capitol Police ) protects the U.S. Capitol, Members of Congress, congressional staff and institutional staff, journalists, and the visiting public. (2)  On January 6, 2021, a mob of insurrectionists forced its way into the U.S. Capitol building and congressional office buildings and engaged in acts of vandalism, looting, and violently attacked Capitol Police officers.  (3)  The sacrifice of heroes including Capitol Police Officers Brian Sicknick and Howard Liebengood, Metropolitan Police Department Officer Jeffrey Smith, and those who sustained injuries, and the courage of Capitol Police Officer Eugene Goodman, exemplify the patriotism and the commitment of Capitol Police officers, and those of other law enforcement agencies, to risk their lives in service of our country.  (4)  Up to seven Americans died following this violent attack, and more than 140 law enforcement officers suffered physical injuries, including 15 officers who were hospitalized.  (5)  The desecration of the U.S. Capitol, which is the temple of our American Democracy, and the violence targeting Congress are horrors that will forever stain our Nation’s history.  (6) On April 2, 2021, Officer William  Billy  Evans was killed while protecting the North Barricade of the Capitol. Officer Evans was a distinguished member of the First Responders Unit and an eighteen-year veteran of the United States Capitol Police. Also injured in that assault was Officer Kenneth Shaver. Officer Shaver is a fifteen-year veteran of the United States Capitol Police.
 2.  Congressional Gold Medals  (a)  Presentation authorization  The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of four gold medals of appropriate design to the United States Capitol Police and those who protected the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021.  (b)  Design and striking For the purposes of the award referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as the  Secretary ) shall strike gold medals with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary. (c)  Disposition of medals  Following the award of the gold medals under subsection (a):  (1)  USCP Headquarters  One gold medal shall be given to the United States Capitol Police, so that the medal may be displayed at the headquarters of the United States Capitol Police and made available for research, as appropriate.  (2)  DC Metropolitan Police Department Headquarters  One gold medal shall be given to the Metropolitan Police Department of the District of Columbia, so that the medal may be displayed at the headquarters of the Metropolitan Police Department and made available for research, as appropriate.  (3)  Smithsonian Institution  (A)  In general  One gold medal shall be given to the Smithsonian Institution, where it shall be available for display as appropriate and available for research.  (B)  Plaque  In displaying the gold medal given under subparagraph (A), the Smithsonian Institution shall display the medal with a plaque that lists the other law enforcement agencies that participated in protecting the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021.  (C)  Sense of the Congress  It is the sense of the Congress that the Smithsonian Institution should make the gold medal given under subparagraph (A) available for display elsewhere, particularly at appropriate locations associated with the protection of the U.S. Capitol on January 6, 2021.  (4)  United States Capitol  (A)  In general  One gold medal shall be given to the Architect of the Capitol, for display in a prominent location in the United States Capitol as appropriate and available for research.  (B)  Plaque  In displaying the gold medal given under subparagraph (A), the Architect of the Capitol shall display the medal with a plaque that lists the other law enforcement agencies that participated in protecting the United States Capitol on January 6, 2021. 
 3.  Duplicate medals  The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medals struck pursuant to section 2 under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses. 
 4.  Sense of Congress  It is the sense of the Congress that the United States Mint should expedite production of the gold medals and duplicate medals under this Act, so that the sacrifices of fallen officers and their families, and the contributions of other law enforcement agencies who answered the call of duty on January 6, 2021, can be recognized and honored in a timely manner. 
 5.  National medals Medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for the purposes of  chapter 51  of title 31, United States Code.
 6.  Determination of Budgetary Effects The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled  Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation  for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
