 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Provider Relief Fund Deadline Extension Act .
 2.  Extension of deadline for eligible health care providers to use certain funds received from the COVID–19 Provider Relief Fund  (a)  Extension of deadline  (1)  Payment received period 1  Effective June 29, 2021, the deadline by which an eligible health care provider is required to use reimbursements from the Provider Relief Fund received by such provider during the covered payment received period shall be extended until the later of—  (A)  the end of the COVID–19 public health emergency period; or  (B)  December 31, 2021.  (2)  Adjustment of reporting time period  The Secretary of Health and Human Services shall make appropriate adjustments to the reporting time period established by the Secretary that is applicable to eligible health care providers with respect to the use of reimbursements from the Provider Relief Fund received during the payment received period to reflect the deadline established in paragraph (1) for the use of such reimbursements received during such payment received period.  (b)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Covered payment received period The term  covered payment received period  means, with respect to the Payment Received Periods referred to in the Provider Relief Fund Guidance, the payments beginning on April 10, 2020, and ending on June 30, 2020. (2)  COVID–19 public health emergency period The term  COVID–19 public health emergency period  means the emergency period described in section 1135(g)(1)(B) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1320b–5(g)(1)(B) ). (3)  Eligible health care provider The term  eligible health care provider  has the meaning given such term in the third proviso of the third paragraph under the heading  Department of Health and Human Services—Office of the Secretary—Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund  in division B of the CARES Act ( Public Law 116–136 ). (4)  Provider relief fund The term  Provider Relief Fund  means the program to prevent, prepare for, and respond to COVID–19, domestically or internationally, for necessary expenses to reimburse, through grants or other mechanisms, eligible health care providers for health care related expenses or lost revenues that are attributable to COVID–19 for which appropriations are made— (A) under the heading  Department of Health and Human Services—Office of the Secretary—Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund  in title VIII of division B of the CARES Act ( Public Law 116–136 ); and (B) under the heading  Department of Health and Human Services—Office of the Secretary—Public Health and Social Services Emergency Fund  in title I of division B of the Paycheck Protection Program and Health Care Enhancement Act ( Public Law 116–139 ). (5)  Provider relief fund guidance The term  Provider Relief Fund Guidance  refers to the guidance entitled  Provider Relief Fund General and Targeted Distribution Post-Payment Notice of Reporting Requirement  and issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services on June 11, 2021.
