 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Rural Health Training Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Increasing retention of rural health care workforce Subpart II of part C of title III of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 293m ) is amended by adding at the end the following:  749C.  Increasing retention of rural health care workforce  (a)  In general  The Secretary, acting through the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration, shall establish a grant program for the purposes of assisting eligible entities in providing training to the existing health care workforce of such entities.  (b)  Eligible entities  In order to be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity shall be a rural hospital, rural health clinic, or community health center under section 330.  (c)  Use of funds  In addition to the purposes specified in section 797, grants awarded under this section may be used to provide trainee support with respect to childcare and transportation.   (d)  Conditions  As a condition on the receipt of a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall agree to—  (1)  limit enrollment in training provided pursuant to this section to health care professionals who are non-physician clinicians and health care support staff; and  (2)  require trainees to serve, as a condition on support received through the grant, a period of obligated service at the eligible entity of not less than 5 years, beginning on the date on which the trainee first receives the training referred to in subsection (a).  (e)  Report  Not later than 10 years after the date on which the first grant is awarded under this section, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Congress a report assessing the impact of grants awarded under this section on health care workforce retention at eligible entities.  (f)  Trainee defined For purposes of this section, the term  trainee  means an individual that is a member of an eligible entity’s existing workforce that is receiving training. Such term does not include students.  (g)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2022 through 2032.  
 . 
