
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Minority Diabetes Initiative Act .
  2.  Grants regarding treatment of diabetes in minority communities Subpart I of part D of title III of the  Public Health Service Act  ( 42 U.S.C. 254b  et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 330M the following:

 330N.  Grants regarding treatment of diabetes in minority communities 
 (a)  In general  The Secretary may make grants to public and nonprofit private health care providers for the purpose of providing treatment for diabetes in minority communities.   (b)  Recipients of grants  The public and nonprofit private health care providers to whom grants may be made under subsection (a) include physicians, podiatrists, community-based organizations, health care organizations, community health centers, and State, local, and tribal health departments. 
 (c)  Scope of treatment activities  The Secretary shall ensure that grants under subsection (a) cover a variety of diabetes-related health care services, including routine care for diabetic patients, public education on diabetes prevention and control, eye care, foot care, and treatment for kidney disease and other complications of diabetes.   (d)  Appropriate cultural context  A condition for the receipt of a grant under subsection (a) is that the applicant involved agrees that, in the program carried out with the grant, services will be provided in the languages most appropriate for, and with consideration for the cultural backgrounds of, the individuals for whom the services are provided. 
 (e)  Outreach services  A condition for the receipt of a grant under subsection (a) is that the applicant involved agrees to provide outreach activities to inform the public of the services of the program, and to provide offsite information on diabetes.   (f)  Application for grant  A grant may be made under subsection (a) only if an application for the grant is submitted to the Secretary and the application is in such form, is made in such manner, and contains such agreements, assurances, and information as the Secretary determines to be necessary to carry out this section. 
 (g)  Authorization of appropriations  For the purpose of carrying out this section, there are authorized to be appropriated such sums as may be necessary for each of the fiscal years 2022 through 2027. 
 . 
 