
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Opioid Patients’ Right to Know Act of 2021 .
  2.  Grant program to inform patients about the risks of opioids and their analogues Part J of title III of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 280b  et seq.) is amended by inserting after section 392A ( 42 U.S.C. 280b–1 ) the following:

 392B.   Grant program to inform patients about the risks of opioids and their analogues 
 (a)  In general  The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall award one grant (over the life of the program under this section) to each eligible State to inform covered health care providers about—   (1)  the requirement of the State described in subsection (b); and 
 (2)  recommendations for safe opioid prescribing.   (b)  Eligibility  To be eligible to receive a grant under subsection (a), a State must have in effect a law or regulation requiring covered health care providers, before issuing a new prescription for a covered drug or analogue, to inform the patient involved, and the patient’s guardian if the patient has a guardian, about— 
 (1)  the risks of such covered drug or analogue;   (2)  the addictive qualities of such covered drug or analogue; and 
 (3)  non-opioid treatments to such covered drug or analogue, as appropriate.   (c)  Grant amount  The amount of a grant to a State under this section— 
 (1)  shall be greater than the amount of each grant to a State with a smaller number of covered health providers, as estimated by the Secretary;   (2)  shall not exceed $1,000,000; and 
 (3)  subject to the availability of funds, shall not be less than $750,000.   (d)  Definitions  For purposes of this section: 
 (1)  Covered drug or analogue The term  covered drug or analogue  means a drug that is or contains an opioid (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act) or an analogue of an opioid.  (2)  Covered health care provider The term  covered health care provider  means a health care provider who issues prescriptions for a covered drug or analogue for the relief of acute pain. 
 (e)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2031. 
 . 
 