
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Debt Solution and Accountability Act .
  2.  Secretary of the Treasury report to Congress after debt limit is increased   (a)  In general Subchapter II of  chapter 31  of title 31, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:

 3131.  Report after debt limit is increased. 
 (a)  In general  Not more than 60 days after the limit specified under section 3101, as modified by section 3101A, is increased, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a report to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives, the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Finance of the Senate, the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate, and the Committee on the Budget of the Senate consisting of the following:   (1)  Debt Report  A report on the state of the public debt, including— 
 (A)  the historical levels of the debt, current amount and composition of the debt, and future projections of the debt;   (B)  the drivers and composition of future debt; and 
 (C)  how the United States will meet debt obligations, including principal and interest.   (2)  Statement of intent  A detailed explanation of— 
 (A)  proposals of the President to reduce the public debt in the short term (the current and following three fiscal years), medium term (approximately five to nine fiscal years), and long term (approximately ten to twenty-five fiscal years), and proposals of the President to adjust the debt-to-gross domestic product ratio;   (B)  the impact the increased debt limit will have on future Government spending, debt service, and the position of the United States dollar as the international reserve currency; and 
 (C)  projections of fiscal health and sustainability of major direct-spending entitlement programs (including Social Security, Medicare, and Medicaid).   (b)  Progress report  Not more than 180 days after the report described in subsection (a) is submitted, the Secretary of the Treasury shall submit a detailed report on the progress of implementing all proposals of the President described under paragraph (2)(A). 
 (c)  Public access to information  The Secretary of the Treasury shall furnish publicly accessible links on the web page of the Department of the Treasury to each report submitted under this section. Such links shall be available for not less than the 6-month period following the date of such submission. 
 .   (b)  Clerical amendment The table of analysis for  chapter 31  of title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to  section 3130  the following:


 3131. Report after debt limit is increased.  . 

 3.  Access to certain Treasury Department data  Not later than thirty days after receipt of a written request from the Chairman of the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives or the Committee on Finance of the Senate but no more than four times per fiscal year for each, the Secretary of the Treasury shall provide to the requesting Chairman financial and economic data relevant to determining the amount of the public debt of the United States, including—   (1)  cash flow and debt transaction information used in preparing the Daily Treasury Statement, including current balances, receipts, and payments; 
 (2)  operating cash balance projections; and   (3)  relevant information regarding any extraordinary measures (as defined under section 3131(d) of title 31, United States Code) taken to prevent the public debt from exceeding the limitation imposed by section 3101 of title 31, United States Code, as modified by section 3101A of such title. 

