 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Growing Opportunities in Agriculture Act  or the  GO Ag Act .
 2.  Grant program for new agricultural education programs Section 114 of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 ( 20 U.S.C. 2324 ) is amended— (1) in subsection (f), in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting  (other than subsection (g))  after  section ; and  (2)  by adding at the end the following:  (g)  Grant program for new agricultural education programs  (1)  Grant program authorized  (A)  In general  The Secretary shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible entities to support the creation of new agricultural education programs in secondary schools.  (B)  Grant duration  A grant awarded under this subsection may not exceed a 5-year grant period.  (2)  Application  (A)  In general  To receive a grant under this subsection, an eligible entity shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including—  (i)  an identification and the role with respect to each program to be funded under the grant of any eligible partners of the eligible entity, including an assurance the grant under this subsection will not be used to prepare students for employment with solely one or more of such eligible partners;  (ii)  an assurance that each program that will receive assistance under the grant is not yet in operation and such grant will be used to start such program;  (iii)  a description of the grant budget, how each program will fund necessary expenses for the program not covered by the grant (such as any funds to be provided by State, local, or private entities), and how the eligible entity will continue each such program after the grant is exhausted;  (iv)  a description of how grant will directly benefit students, including special populations, served by the eligible entity;  (v)  a description of how each such program will be coordinated with the activities carried out under section 124 or 135;  (vi)  a description of how each such program reflects the needs of regional, State, or local employers, as demonstrated by the comprehensive needs assessment under section 134(c) carried out by the eligible entity; and  (vii)  an assurance that the eligible entity will—  (I)  provide information to the Secretary, as requested, for the evaluation under paragraph (4) and any evaluations that the Secretary may carry out; and  (II) make data available to third parties for validation, in accordance with applicable data privacy laws, including section 444 of the General Education Provisions Act ( 20 U.S.C. 1232g , commonly known as the  Family Educational Rights and Privacy Act of 1974 ). (B)  Process  The Secretary shall create a process for evaluating applications submitted under subparagraph (A) and determining the amount of each grant for successful applications, except that in no case may an eligible entity receive a grant exceeding $100,000.  (3)  Uses of funds  Each eligible entity receiving a grant under this subsection shall use such grant for the creation of new agricultural education programs in secondary schools, which may include—  (A)  curriculum development and delivery, including classroom or laboratory instruction, work-based learning, and leadership education delivered through career and technical student organizations;  (B)  the purchase of equipment, technology, and course materials; and  (C)  other costs the Secretary may determine to be eligible.  (4)  Evaluation and annual report  Each eligible entity receiving a grant under this subsection shall provide for an independent evaluation of the activities carried out using such grant and submit to the Secretary an annual report that includes—  (A)  a description of how the grant was used;  (B)  the performance of each program assistance with such grant with respect to, at a minimum, the performance indicators described under section 113, as applicable, and disaggregated—  (i) by subgroups of students described in section 1111(c)(2)(B) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 6311(c)(2)(B) ); and (ii)  by each special population; and  (C)  a quantitative analysis of the effectiveness of each such program.  (5)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $5,000,000, to remain available through fiscal year 2026.  (6)  Definitions  In this subsection:  (A)  Agricultural education The term  agricultural education  means career and technical education that is focused on agriculture, including classroom or laboratory instruction, work-based learning, and leadership education delivered through career and technical student organizations. (B)  Eligible entity The term  eligible entity  has the meaning given the term  eligible recipient  in section 3(21)(A) of the Carl D. Perkins Career and Technical Education Act of 2006 ( 20 U.S.C. 2302(21)(A) ). (C)  Eligible partner The term  eligible partner  means— (i)  an institution of higher education or a consortium of such institutions; or  (ii)  a community stakeholder relevant to a program to be funded under this subsection, including a labor organization, a local or regional business or industry, or a local workforce development board.   . 
