 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Establishing Accreditation Grants for Law Enforcement Act of 2021  or the  EAGLE Act of 2021 .
 2.  Grant program for local law enforcement agency accreditation  (a)  Establishment Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Attorney General shall establish a grant program (in this Act referred to as the  Program ) to provide for the qualified accreditation or re-certification of a local law enforcement agency.  (b)  Grant authority  In carrying out the Program, the Attorney General shall award a grant to an eligible recipient under subsection (c).   (c)  Eligible recipient  The Attorney General shall award a grant under the Program to a local law enforcement agency that submits an application pursuant to subsection (d).  (d)  Application  To be eligible under the Program, a local law enforcement agency shall submit to the Attorney General an application that demonstrates—  (1)  the financial need of the local law enforcement agency; and  (2)  amount requested by the local law enforcement agency, including amount to be spent on—  (A)  accreditation or re-certification fees;  (B)  on-site assessment charges; and   (C)  extension fees.   (e)  Eligible projects  Grant funds awarded under the Program may only be used to assist in the qualified accreditation or re-certification of a local law enforcement agency.  (f)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.  (g)  Period of availability  Funds made available to carry out the Program shall remain available until expended.   (h)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Qualified accreditation or re-certification The term  qualified accreditation or re-certification  means accreditation or re-certification of a local law enforcement agency by a professional law enforcement organization involved in the development of standards of accreditation for law enforcement agencies at the national, State, regional, or Tribal level, such as the Commission on Accreditation for Law Enforcement Agencies (CALEA). (2)  Local law enforcement agency The term  local law enforcement agency  means an agency of a unit of local government that is authorized by law to supervise the prevention, detection, investigation, or prosecution of any violation of criminal law and that has less than 350 employees. 
