
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Consumer Protection and Recovery Act . 
  2.  FTC authority to seek permanent injunctions and other equitable relief   (a)  Permanent injunctions and other equitable relief Section 13 of the Federal Trade Commission Act ( 15 U.S.C. 53 ) is amended—
 (1)  in subsection (b)—   (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting  has violated,  after  corporation ;
 (B)  in paragraph (2)—   (i) by striking  that  and inserting  that either (A) ; and
 (ii) by striking  final,  and inserting  final; or (B) the permanent enjoining thereof or the ordering of equitable relief under subsection (e), ; and  (C)  in the matter following paragraph (2)— 
 (i) by striking  to enjoin any such act or practice ;  (ii) by striking  Upon  and inserting  In a suit under paragraph (2)(A), upon ; 
 (iii) by striking  without bond ;  (iv) by striking  proper cases  and inserting  a suit under paragraph (2)(B) ;
 (v) by striking  injunction.  and inserting  injunction, equitable relief under subsection (e), or such other relief as the court determines to be just and proper, including temporary or preliminary equitable relief. ;  (vi) by striking  Any suit  and inserting  Any suit under this subsection ; and
 (vii) by striking  In any suit under this section  and inserting  In any such suit ; and  (2)  by adding at the end the following: 

 (e)  Equitable relief 
 (1)  Restitution; contract rescission and reformation; refunds; return of property  In a suit brought under subsection (b)(2)(B), the Commission may seek, and the court may order, with respect to the violation that gives rise to the suit, restitution for losses, rescission or reformation of contracts, refund of money, or return of property.   (2)  Disgorgement  In a suit brought under subsection (b)(2)(B), the Commission may seek, and the court may order, disgorgement of any unjust enrichment that a person, partnership, or corporation obtained as a result of the violation that gives rise to the suit. 
 (3)  Calculation  Any amount that a person, partnership, or corporation is ordered to pay under paragraph (2) with respect to a violation shall be offset by any amount such person, partnership, or corporation is ordered to pay, and the value of any property such person, partnership, or corporation is ordered to return, under paragraph (1) with respect to such violation.    (4)  Limitations period   (A)  In general  A court may not order equitable relief under this subsection with respect to any violation occurring before the period that begins on the date that is 10 years before the date on which the Commission files the suit in which such relief is sought. 
 (B)  Calculation  For purposes of calculating the beginning of the period described in subparagraph (A), any time during which an individual against which the equitable relief is sought is outside of the United States shall not be counted.  .   (b)  Conforming amendment Section 16(a)(2)(A) of the Federal Trade Commission Act ( 15 U.S.C. 56(a)(2)(A) ) is amended by striking  (relating to injunctive relief) .
 (c)  Applicability  The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to any action or proceeding that is pending on, or commenced on or after, the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 