 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Flood Risk Transparency for Homebuyers Act .
 2.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Administrator The term  Administrator  means the Administrator of the Federal Emergency Management Agency. (2)  Covered property The term  covered property  means a 1-to-4 unit residential property— (A) acquired by the Department as a result of a foreclosure action on a mortgage insured by the Federal Housing Administration under title II of the National Housing Act ( 12 U.S.C. 1707 et seq. ); and (B)  located in a special flood hazard area according to a flood hazard boundary map or flood insurance rate map issued by the Administration.   (3)  Department The term  Department  means the Department of Housing and Urban Development. (4)  National Flood Insurance Program The term  National Flood Insurance Program  means the program established under the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 ( 42 U.S.C. 4001 et seq. ). (5)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. (6)  Severe repetitive loss property The term  severe repetitive loss property  has the meaning given the term in section 1307(h) of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 ( 42 U.S.C. 4014(h) ).
 3.  Requirement to provide disclosure to homebuyers of properties located in special flood hazard areas  (a)  In general  When listing a covered property for sale by the Department, the Secretary shall provide a disclosure notice that includes—  (1)  the estimated monthly cost of insurance for the covered property under the National Flood Insurance Program for the zip code in which the covered property is located; and  (2)  whether the covered property is a severe repetitive loss property.  (b)  Annual report  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary and the Administrator shall submit to Congress a joint report on covered properties sold by the Department for which claims were filed under the National Flood Insurance Program during the year covered by the report, including whether the covered property is a severe repetitive loss property. 
