 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Technical Assistance for Health Grants Act  .
 2.  Technical assistance  (a)  In general Section 2008 of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1397 ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (b)(4), by striking subparagraph (D); and  (2)  by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (d) and (e) and inserting after subsection (b) the following:  (c)  Technical assistance  (1)  In general  The Secretary shall provide technical assistance—  (A)  to assist eligible entities in applying for grants under this section;  (B)  that is tailored to meet the needs of grantees at each stage of the administration of projects for which grants are made under this section;  (C)  that is tailored to meet the specific needs of Indian tribes tribal organizations, and tribal colleges and universities;  (D)  that is tailored to meet the specific needs of the territories;  (E)  that is tailored to meet the specific needs of eligible entities in carrying out demonstration projects for which a grant is made under this section; and  (F)  to facilitate the exchange of information among eligible entities regarding best practices and promising practices used in the projects.  (2)  Continuation of peer technical assistance conferences  The Secretary shall hold peer technical assistance conferences for entities to which a grant is made under this section. The preceding sentence shall not be interpreted to require any such conference to be held in person.  (3)  Report to the congress  During each Congress, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Ways and Means of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Finance of the Senate a report on the nature of any technical assistance provided to grantees under this section.  .  (b)  Funding Section 2008(c)(1) of such Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1397(c)(1) ) is amended by inserting  , and to carry out subsection (c) $15,000,000 for fiscal year 2022  before the period.
 3.  Effective date  The amendments made by this Act shall take effect on October 1, 2021. 
