 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Fast Track Advanced Apprenticeships Now Act .
 2.  New apprenticeable occupations  (a)  In general  The Secretary of Labor shall review and make a determination on whether to approve an occupation as an apprenticeable occupation not later than 45 days after receiving an application from a person seeking such approval from the Secretary.  (b)  Estimated timeline  If such determination is not made within 45 days, the Secretary shall provide the applicant with a written explanation for the delay and offer an estimated timeline for a determination that does not exceed 90 days after the date of such written explanation. 
 3.  Industry-recognized occupational standards  (a)  In general  The Secretary shall convene, on an ongoing basis and taking into consideration recommendations of the National Advisory Committee on Apprenticeships, as authorized under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly referred to as the National Apprenticeship Act), the industry sector leaders and experts described in subsection (b) for the purposes of establishing or updating specific frameworks of industry-recognized occupational standards for apprenticeable occupations (including potential apprenticeable occupations) that—  (1)  meet the requirements of subpart A of part 29, and part 30 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on September 18, 2020); and  (2)  describe program scope and length, related instruction, on-the-job training, recognized postsecondary credentials, and competencies, and relevant timelines for review of such frameworks.  (b)  Industry sector leaders and experts  The industry sector leaders and experts are employers, industry associations, joint labor-management organizations, labor organizations, education and training providers, credential providers, program participants, and other stakeholders relevant to the sector or occupation for which the frameworks are being established or updated, as determined by the Secretary.  (c)  Priority industry-Recognized apprenticeable occupations  In establishing frameworks under subsection (a) for the first time after the date enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall prioritize the establishment of such standards in high-skill, high-wage, or in-demand industry sectors and occupations. 
 4.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Apprenticeship The term  apprenticeship  or  apprenticeship program  means an apprenticeship— (A) registered with the Department of Labor under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the  National Apprenticeship Act ; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663;  29 U.S.C. 50  et seq.), or a State Apprenticeship Agency recognized by the Department of Labor; and (B)  that complies with the requirements of subpart A of part 29, and part 30 of title 29, Code of Federal Regulations (as in effect on September 18, 2020).  (2)  National apprenticeship system The term  national apprenticeship system  means the apprenticeship programs, youth apprenticeship programs, and pre-apprenticeship programs registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly referred to as the National Apprenticeship Act). (3)  Recognized postsecondary credential The term  recognized postsecondary credential  has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ( 29 U.S.C. 3102 ), except that such term does not include a certificate of completion of an apprenticeship. (4)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Labor. 
 5.  Funding  Any funds appropriated under this Act shall only be used for, or provided to, programs under the national apprenticeship system, including any funds awarded for the purposes of grants, contracts, or cooperative agreements, or the development, implementation, or administration, of programs under the national apprenticeship system. 
