
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Destigmatizing in Immigration Act . 
  2.  Marijuana use, possession, and distribution not considered for good moral character or grounds for inadmissibility   (a)  In general The Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1101  et seq.) is amended—
 (1) in section 101 ( 8 U.S.C. 1101 )—  (A) in subsection (a)(43)(B), by inserting  other than the distribution of marijuana,  after  (as defined in section 102 of the Controlled Substances Act) ; and
 (B)  in subsection (f)—   (i) in paragraph (3), by striking  a single offense of simple possession of 30 grams or less of marihuana  and inserting  offenses involving the use, possession, or distribution of marijuana ; and
 (ii) by adding at the end the following:  Notwithstanding any other provision of this Act, any offenses or conduct involving the use, possession, or distribution of marijuana shall not be considered in a determination of whether a person is a person of good moral character. ;  (2) in section 212(a)(2) ( 8 U.S.C. 1182(a)(2) ), by amending subparagraph (F) to read as follows:

 (F)  Marijuana offenses  Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, any offenses involving the use, possession, or distribution of marijuana shall not be considered as grounds of inadmissibility.  ; and   (3) in section 237(a)(2)(B)(i) ( 8 U.S.C. 1227(a)(2)(B)(i) ), by striking  other than a single offense involving possession for one's own use of 30 grams or less of marijuana  and inserting  other than offenses involving the use, possession, or distribution of marijuana .
 (b)  Right To reapply or return 
 (1)  Reapplication  Any alien who was previously denied a visa to enter the United States as a direct result of the alien’s use, possession, or distribution of marijuana may reapply for admission to the United States.   (2)  Reissuance  Any alien who was deported from the United States as a direct result of the alien’s use, possession, or distribution of marijuana shall be readmitted to the United States and reissued the visa that they had at the time of the alien’s deportation if the alien is not inadmissible under section 212(a) of the Immigration and Nationality Act, as amended by subsection (a)(2). 

 3.  Habitual drunkard repeal Paragraph (1) of section 101(f) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1101(f) ) is repealed. 
 