 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Preparing Localities for an Autonomous and Connected Environment Act  or the  PLACE Act .
 2.  National highly automated vehicle and mobility innovation clearinghouse  (a)  In general Subchapter I of  chapter 55  of title 49, United States Code, is further amended by adding at the end the following: 5506.  National highly automated vehicle and mobility innovation clearinghouse  (a)  In general  The Secretary shall make a grant to an institution of higher education engaged in research on the secondary impacts of highly automated vehicles and mobility innovation to—  (1)  operate a national highly automated vehicle and mobility innovation clearinghouse;  (2)  collect, conduct, and fund research on the secondary impacts of highly automated vehicles and mobility innovation;  (3)  make such research available on a public website; and  (4)  conduct outreach and dissemination of the information described in this subsection to assist communities.  (b)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated out of the Highway Trust Fund (other than the Mass Transit Account) to carry out this section $2,000,000 for each fiscal year from funds made available to carry out sections 512 through 518 of title 23, United States Code.   (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Highly automated vehicle The term  highly automated vehicle  means a motor vehicle that— (A)  is capable of performing the entire task of driving (including steering, accelerating and decelerating, and reacting to external stimulus) without human intervention; and  (B)  is designed to be operated exclusively by a Level 3, Level 4, or Level 5 automated driving system for all trips according to the recommended practice standards published on June 15, 2018, by the Society of Automotive Engineers International (J3016_201806) or equivalent standards adopted by the Secretary with respect to automated motor vehicles.  (2)  Mobility innovation The term  mobility innovation  means an activity described in section 5316, including mobility on demand and mobility as a service (as such terms are defined in such section). (3)  Institution of higher education The term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001 ). (4)  Secondary impacts The term  secondary impacts  means the impacts on land use, urban design, transportation systems, real estate, accessibility, municipal budgets, social equity, availability and quality of jobs, air quality and climate, energy consumption, and the environment.
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The analysis for  chapter 55  of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 5506. National highly automated vehicle and mobility innovation clearinghouse.  .  (c)  Deadline for clearinghouse  The Secretary of Transportation shall ensure that the institution of higher education that receives the grant described in section 5506(a)(1) of title 49, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), shall establish the national highly automated vehicle clearinghouse described in such section not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act.  
