 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Office of Attending Physician Independence Act . 
 2.  Appointment of Attending Physician  (a)  In general The Attending Physician shall be appointed by the President, from the candidates recommended by the commission under  subsection (b) (2), by and with the advice and consent of the Senate for a term of 10 years. (b)  Individuals eligible for appointment  (1)  Commission to recommend candidates There is established a commission to recommend individuals to the President in accordance with  paragraph (2)  for appointment to the position of Attending Physician, which shall consist of 15 members as follows: (A)  The Speaker of the House of Representatives.  (B)  The President pro tempore of the Senate.  (C)  The majority and minority leaders of the House of Representatives and the Senate.  (D)  The chairs and the ranking minority members of—  (i)  the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives;  (ii)  the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives;  (iii)  the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate; and  (iv)  the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.  (E)  The Marshal of the Supreme Court of the United States.   (2)  Requirements for recommended candidates The commission shall recommend under  paragraph (1)  at least 3 individuals who are medical officers of the Department of the Navy (as such term is defined in section 101(b) of title 10, United States Code) for appointment to the position of Attending Physician. (3)  Eligibility for reappointment  An individual who serves a term as Attending Physician shall be eligible for reappointment to such office in accordance with subsection (a).  (c)  Effective date  Subsection (a)  shall apply with respect to an individual appointed to fill a vacancy in the office of Attending Physician after the date of enactment of this Act. 
 3.  Oversight of Office of Attending Physician  The Office of Attending Physician shall be subject to oversight by the Committee on House Administration of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Rules and Administration of the Senate. 
