 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Compacts, Access, and Responsible Expansion for Mental Health Professionals Act  or the  C.A.R.E. for Mental Health Professionals Act .
 2.  Mental Health Licensure Portability Program  (a)  Establishment  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Administrator, shall establish a grant program to be known as the Mental Health Licensure Portability Program to award grants to eligible entities for projects to—  (1)  incentivize counselors to practice in States that have entered into interstate compacts for the purpose of expanding the workforce of credentialed mental health professionals; and  (2)  develop, operate, or maintain interstate compact commissions authorized to effectuate the provisions of interstate compacts entered into by such States.  (b)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Administrator The term  Administrator  means the Administrator of the Health Resources and Services Administration. (2)  Commission The term  commission  means a joint interstate governmental agency comprised of States that have entered into an interstate compact for the purpose of implementing, facilitating, and effectuating provisions of such interstate compact. (3)  Counselor The term  counselor  means a licensed professional that is trained to give guidance to individuals, families, and groups with respect to personal, social, or psychological problems. (4)  Eligible entity The term  eligible entity  means a professional, psychiatric, psychological, or pediatric counseling interstate compact commission or licensure board of a State that is participating in an occupational licensure interstate compact. (5)  Interstate compact The term  compact  means an occupational licensure agreement enacted by 2 or more States that is based on the mutual recognition of professional qualifications through criteria stipulated in such agreement, in which a State agrees to recognize the issuance of a license by another State to a counselor, psychiatrist, psychologist, or pediatric mental health professional. (6)  State The term  State  has the meaning given the term in section 6501 of title 31, United States Code. (c)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this Act such sums as may be necessary for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2026.  
