 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  LGBTQ Data Inclusion Act .
 2.  Requirement to collect data on sexual orientation and gender identity  (a)  Survey requirement  Any agency that collects information through a survey that includes demographic data where subjects either self-report information or a knowledgeable proxy provides information about the subject or responds for all persons in a household shall, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, establish data standards that require, with regard to such a survey the following:  (1)  Review  The review of existing data sets to determine in which data sets information about sexual orientation and gender identity is not included.  (2)  Methods  An identification of appropriate methods to include questions on sexual orientation and gender identity in surveys that facilitate categorization, voluntary participation, and preserve privacy and confidentiality.  (3)  Data collection  The use of the appropriate methods identified in paragraph (2) to gather data on sexual orientation and gender identity.  (4)  Assessment  The implementation of a process to routinely assess needed changes in survey methods related to asking questions on sexual orientation and gender identity.  (b)  Data reports  Any report published by an agency that relies on survey demographic data shall include information on sexual orientation and gender identity.  (c)  Confidentiality  Any information collected relating to the sexual orientation or gender identity of a survey participant shall be maintained in accordance with the confidentiality and privacy standards and policies for the protection of individuals applicable to that survey.  (d)  Applicability  (1)  Construction  Nothing in this Act shall be construed to require an individual to disclose their sexual orientation or gender identity to an agency.  (2)  Exemption from penalty An individual shall not be subject to any fine or other penalty for refusing to answer, or providing a false answer to, any survey question regarding gender identity or sexual orientation, including any fine or penalty under subchapter II of  chapter 7  of title 13, United States Code. (e)  Rule of construction  Nothing in this section shall be construed to permit the use of information collected under this section in a manner that would adversely affect any individual.  (f)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Agency The term  agency  has the meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code. (2)  Demographic data The term  demographic data  means information about the race or ethnicity, sex, and age of a survey participant or population. (3)  Gender identity The term  gender identity  means an individual’s sense of being male, female, transgender, or another gender, as distinct from the individual’s sex assigned at birth. (4)  Sexual orientation The term  sexual orientation  means how a person identifies in terms of their emotional, romantic, or sexual attractions, and includes identification as straight, heterosexual, gay, lesbian, or bisexual, among other terms. (5)  Survey The term  survey  means a data collection activity involving observation or questionnaires for a sample of a population and includes the decennial census.
