 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as  Cameron’s Law . 
 2.  Restoration of amount of orphan drug tax credit  (a)  In general  Section 45C(a)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  25 percent  and inserting  50 percent . (b)  Effective date  The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 3.  CDC feasibility study on surveillance infrastructure for rare diseases and conditions  (a)  Study Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (in this section referred to as the  Director ) shall complete a study to evaluate the feasibility of enhancing and expanding the infrastructure to track the epidemiology of rare diseases and conditions, including with respect to the following: (1)  Rates of mortality.  (2)  Potential for research and treatment.  (3)  Demographics.  (4)  Diagnosis and progression markers.  (5)  The history of the disease or condition.  (6)  Detection management.  (b)  Consultation  In conducting the study required by subsection (a), the Director shall consult with relevant experts, including—  (1)  epidemiologists with experience in disease surveillance;  (2)  representatives of national voluntary health associations;  (3)  health information technology experts or other information management specialists;  (4)  clinicians with expertise in rare diseases or conditions;  (5)  research scientists with expertise in rare diseases or conditions, or experience conducting translational research or utilizing surveillance systems for scientific research purposes; and  (6)  patients, and caregivers of patients, with rare diseases or conditions.  (c)  Report  Not later than 3 months after completing the study required by subsection (a), the Director shall submit a report to the Congress on the results of the study.  (d)  Definition In this section, the terms  rare diseases and conditions  and  rare diseases or conditions  refer to human diseases and conditions that are— (1) a rare disease or condition, as defined in section 526 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act ( 21 U.S.C. 360bb ); or (2)  determined by the Director to be rare and lacking in treatment options, so as to warrant consideration in the study required by subsection (a). 
