 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  DHS Blue Campaign Enhancement Act .
 2.  Department of Homeland Security Blue Campaign enhancement Section 434 of the Homeland Security Act of 2002 ( 6 U.S.C. 242 ) is amended— (1) in subsection (e)(6), by striking  utilizing resources,  and inserting  developing and utilizing, in consultation with the Advisory Board established pursuant to subsection (g), resources ; and (2)  by adding at the end the following new subsections:  (f)  Web-Based training programs  To enhance training opportunities, the Director of the Blue Campaign shall develop web-based interactive training videos that utilize a learning management system to provide online training opportunities that shall be made available to the following individuals:  (1)  Federal, State, local, Tribal, and territorial law enforcement officers.  (2)  Non-Federal correction system personnel.  (3)  Such other individuals as the Director determines appropriate.  (g)  Blue campaign advisory board  (1)  In general  The Secretary shall establish within the Department a Blue Campaign Advisory Board and shall assign to such Board a representative from each of the following components:  (A)  The Transportation Security Administration.  (B)  U.S. Customs and Border Protection.  (C)  U.S. Immigration and Customs Enforcement.  (D)  The Federal Law Enforcement Training Center.  (E)  The United States Secret Service.  (F)  The Office for Civil Rights and Civil Liberties.  (G)  The Privacy Office.  (H)  Any other components or offices the Secretary determines appropriate.  (2)  Charter  The Secretary is authorized to issue a charter for the Board, and such charter shall specify the following:  (A)  The Board’s mission, goals, and scope of its activities.  (B)  The duties of the Board’s representatives.  (C)  The frequency of the Board’s meetings.  (3)  Consultation  The Director shall consult the Board established pursuant to paragraph (1) regarding the following:  (A)  Recruitment tactics used by human traffickers to inform the development of training and materials by the Blue Campaign.  (B)  The development of effective awareness tools for distribution to Federal and non-Federal officials to identify and prevent instances of human trafficking.  (C)  Identification of additional persons or entities that may be uniquely positioned to recognize signs of human trafficking and the development of materials for such persons.  (4)  Applicability  The Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.) does not apply to—  (A)  the Board; or  (B)  consultations under paragraph (2).  (h)  Consultation  With regard to the development of programs under the Blue Campaign and the implementation of such programs, the Director is authorized to consult with State, local, Tribal, and territorial agencies, non-governmental organizations, private sector organizations, and experts. Such consultation shall be exempt from the Federal Advisory Committee Act (5 U.S.C. App.).  . 
