 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Curbing China’s Vaccine Diplomacy Act .
 2.  Prioritization of international distribution of COVID-19 vaccine doses  (a)  Prioritization  (1)  In general  In carrying out the international distribution of COVID-19 vaccine doses, the Secretary of State shall prioritize such distribution to Taiwan and crucial Latin American allies.  (2)  Timing  The Secretary of State may not carry out this section until such time as the certification described in subsection (d) has been transmitted.  (b)  Reservation  The Secretary of State shall ensure that of the total number of COVID-19 vaccine doses intended for international distribution, not less than 25 percent of such doses are reserved for and distributed to Taiwan and crucial Latin American allies.  (c)  Prohibition  The Secretary of State may not distribute internationally to any recipient or country any COVID-19 vaccine doses until Taiwan and crucial Latin American allies have each received at least a first shipment of the reservation specified in subsection (b).  (d)  Certification  Not later than 10 days after the Administration determines all Americans have been afforded ample opportunity to be fully vaccinated against COVID-19, the Administration shall transmit to Congress a certification so attesting.  (e)  Exception  The Secretary of State may not distribute COVID-19 vaccine does under this section to any country the government (or related governmental entity) of which has been determined to have engaged in systemic or widespread human rights abuses in accordance with the Department of State’s most recent Country Reports on Human Rights Practices.  (f)  Sunset  This section shall terminate five days after the date on which the Secretary of State makes a determination that Taiwan and crucial Latin American allies each have achieved 40 percent vaccination rates of their respective populations.  (g)  Definition The term  crucial Latin American allies  means those countries in Latin America determined by the Secretary of State to have deep diplomatic, military, or cultural ties with the United States.
