 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection-Inspector General Reform Act of 2021  or the  CFPB–IG Reform Act of 2021 .
 2.  Appointment of Inspector General  The Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended—  (1)  in section 8G—  (A) in subsection (a)(2), by striking  and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection ; (B) in subsection (c), by striking  For purposes of implementing this section  and all that follows through the end of the subsection; and (C) in subsection (g)(3), by striking  and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection ; and (2)  in section 12—  (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting  the Director of the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection;  after  the President of the Export-Import Bank; ; and (B) in paragraph (2), by inserting  the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection,  after  the Export-Import Bank, .
 3.  Requirements for the Inspector General for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection  (a)  Establishment Section 1011 of the Dodd-Frank Wall Street Reform and Consumer Protection Act ( 12 U.S.C. 5491 ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (b)—  (A) in the subsection heading, by striking  and Deputy Director  and inserting  , Deputy Director, and Inspector General ; and (B)  by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:  (6)  Inspector General  There is established the position of the Inspector General.  ; and  (2) in subsection (d), by striking  or Deputy Director  each place it appears and inserting  , Deputy Director, or Inspector General . (b)  Hearings  Section 1016 of such Act is amended by inserting after subsection (c) the following:  (d)  Additional Requirement for Inspector General On a separate occasion from that described in subsection (a), the Inspector General of the Bureau shall appear, upon invitation, before the Committee on Banking, Housing, and Urban Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Financial Services and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives at semiannual hearings regarding the reports required under subsection (b) and the reports required under  section 5  of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.). .  (c)  Funding for Office of Inspector General  Section 1017(a)(2) of such Act is amended—  (1)  by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (D); and  (2)  by inserting after subparagraph (B) the following:  (C)  Funding for Office of Inspector General  Each fiscal year, the Bureau shall dedicate 2 percent of the funds transferred pursuant to paragraph (1) to the Office of the Inspector General.  .  (d)  Participation in the Council of Inspectors General on Financial Oversight  Section 989E(a)(1) of such Act is amended by adding at the end the following:  (J)  The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection.  .  (e)  Deadline for appointment Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the President shall appoint an Inspector General for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection in accordance with  section 3  of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.).
 4.  Effective date  The amendments made by this Act shall take effect 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 5.  Transition period  The Inspector General of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall serve in that position until the confirmation of an Inspector General for the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection. At that time, the Inspector General of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall become the Inspector General of the Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System. 
