 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Onward to Opportunity Act .
 2.  Pilot grant program to supplement the transition assistance program of the Department of Defense  (a)  Establishment  The Secretary of Defense, in consultation with the Secretary of Veterans Affairs, shall carry out a pilot grant program under which the Secretary of Defense provides enhanced support and funding to eligible entities to supplement TAP to provide job opportunities for industry recognized certifications, job placement assistance, and related employment services directly to covered individuals.  (b)  Services  Under the pilot grant program, the Secretary of Defense shall provide grants to eligible entities to provide to covered individuals the following services:  (1)  Using an industry-validated screening tool, assessments of prior education, work history, and employment aspirations of covered individuals, to tailor appropriate and employment services.  (2)  Preparation for civilian employment through services like mock interviews and salary negotiations, training on professional networking platforms, and company research.  (3)  Several industry-specific learning pathways—  (A)  with entry-level, mid-level and senior versions;  (B)  in fields such as project management, cybersecurity, and information technology;  (C)  in which each covered individual works with an academic advisor to choose a career pathway and navigate coursework during the training process; and  (D)  in which each covered individual can earn industry-recognized credentials and certifications, at no charge to the covered individual.  (4)  Job placement services.  (c)  Program organization and implementation model  The pilot grant program shall follow existing economic opportunity program models that combine industry-recognized certification training, furnished by professionals, with online learning staff.  (d)  Consultation  In carrying out the program, the Secretary of Defense shall seek to consult with private entities to assess the best economic opportunity program models, including existing economic opportunity models furnished through public-private partnerships.  (e)  Eligibility  To be eligible to receive a grant under the pilot grant program, an entity shall—  (1)  follow a job training and placement model;  (2)  have rigorous program evaluation practices;  (3)  have established partnerships with entities (such as employers, governmental agencies, and non-profit entities) to provide services described in subsection (b);  (4)  have online training capability to reach rural veterans, reduce costs, and comply with new conditions forced by COVID-19; and  (5)  have a well-developed practice of program measurement and evaluation that evinces program performance and efficiency, with data that is high quality and shareable with partner entities.  (f)  Coordination with Federal entities  A grantee shall coordinate with Federal entities, including—  (1)  the Office of Transition and Economic Development of the Department of Veterans Affairs; and  (2)  the Office of Veteran Employment and Transition Services of the Department of Labor.  (g)  Metrics and evaluation  Performance outcomes shall be verifiable using a third-party auditing method and include the following:  (1)  The number of covered individuals who receive and complete skills training.  (2)  The number of covered individuals who secure employment.  (3)  The retention rate for covered individuals described in paragraph (2).  (4)  Median salary of covered individuals described in paragraph (2).  (h)  Site locations  The Secretary of Defense shall select five military installations in the United States where existing models are successful.  (i)  Assessment of possible expansion  A grantee shall assess the feasibility of expanding the current offering of virtual training and career placement services to members of the reserve components of the Armed Forces and covered individuals outside the United States.  (j)  Duration  The pilot grant program shall terminate on September 30, 2025.  (k)  Report  Not later than 180 days after the termination of the pilot grant program, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a report that includes—  (1)  a description of the pilot grant program, including a description of specific activities carried out under this section; and  (2)  the metrics and evaluations used to assess the effectiveness of the pilot grant program.  (l)  Definitions  In this section:  (1) The term  covered individual  means— (A)  a member of the Armed Forces participating in TAP; or  (B)  a spouse of a member described in subparagraph (A).  (2) The term  military installation  has the meaning given such term in section 2801 of title 10, United States Code. (3) The term  TAP  means the transition assistance program of the Department of Defense under sections 1142 and 1144 of title 10, United States Code.
