 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Stopping Overdoses of Fentanyl Analogues Act .
 2.  Fentanyl-related substances Section 202(c) of the Controlled Substances Act ( 21 U.S.C. 812 ) is amended— (1)  by adding at the end of subsection (b) of Schedule I the following:  (23)  Isobutyryl fentanyl.  (24)  Para-Methoxybutyrylfentanyl.  (25)  Valeryl fentanyl.  (26)  Cyclopentyl fentanyl.  (27)  Para-Chloroisobutyryl fentanyl.  ; and  (2)  by adding at the end of Schedule I the following:  (e)  (1)  Unless specifically exempted or unless listed in another schedule, any material, compound, mixture, or preparation which contains any quantity of fentanyl-related substances, or which contains their salts, isomers, and salts of isomers whenever the existence of such salts, isomers, and salts of isomers is possible within the specific chemical designation.  (2) In paragraph (1), the term  fentanyl-related substances  includes the following: (A)  Any substance that is structurally related to fentanyl by one or more of the following modifications:  (i)  By replacement of the phenyl portion of the phenethyl group by any monocycle, whether or not further substituted in or on the monocycle.  (ii)  By substitution in or on the phenethyl group with alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, hydroxy, halo, haloalkyl, amino or nitro groups.  (iii)  By substitution in or on the piperidine ring with alkyl, alkenyl, alkoxy, ester, ether, hydroxy, halo, haloalkyl, amino or nitro groups.  (iv)  By replacement of the aniline ring with any aromatic monocycle whether or not further substituted in or on the aromatic monocycle.  (v)  By replacement of the N-propionyl group by another acyl group.  (B)  4′-Methyl acetyl fentanyl.  (C)  Crotonyl fentanyl.  (D)  2′-Fluoro ortho-fluorofentanyl.  (E)  Ortho-Methyl acetylfentanyl.  (F)  Thiofuranyl fentanyl.  (G)  Ortho-Fluorobutyryl fentanyl.  (H)  Ortho-Fluoroacryl fentanyl.  (I)  Beta-Methyl fentanyl.  (J)  Phenyl fentanyl.  (K)  Para-Methylfentanyl.  (L)  Beta′-Phenyl fentanyl.  (M)  Benzodioxole fentanyl.  .  This Act shall take effect one day after the date of enactment. 
