 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Well-Informed, Scientific, and Efficient Government Act of 2021  or the  WISE Government Act .
 2.  Agency journal subscriptions  (a)  Prohibition on nondisclosure provision for journal subscriptions  The head of an agency may not enter into any contract for a journal subscription that prohibits disclosure of the cost of the subscription to another agency or the Library of Congress.  (b)  Employee access to library subscriptions  Not later than 6 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the head of each agency shall require that each library of the agency make easily and clearly available to the employees of the agency, including regional employees, through the intranet any policy or procedure for employee access to a subscription of the library.  (c)  Report on increasing access to serials  Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in consultation with the Library of Congress, the applicable agency libraries, and other relevant stakeholders (including the Defense Technical Information Center, the National Library of Medicine, the Education Resources Information Center, and the National Technical Information Service) shall submit to Congress and each agency library a report on increasing agency library access to serials that includes—  (1)  a survey of subscriptions purchased and cost data for applicable agency libraries and the Library of Congress;  (2)  an outline of any issues with agency access to scientific serials and subscriptions, which may include contract issues, concerns arising with new publishing media (including print, online, and aggregated services), the ability of agency employees to use agency library subscriptions in headquarters and regional offices, purchasing system inefficiencies, and price concerns; and  (3)  recommendations on addressing issues, including short-term and long-term solutions and assessing the potential need for greater interagency transparency and new purchasing models.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Administrator The term  Administrator  means the Administrator of General Services. (2)  Agency The term  agency  has the meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code. (3)  Applicable agency library The term  applicable agency library  means the libraries of— (A)  the Executive departments listed in section 101 of title 5, United States Code;  (B)  the military departments listed in section 102 of title 5, United States Code; and  (C)  any agency with a scientific focus, including the Environmental Protection Agency and the National Aeronautics and Space Administration.  (4)  Director The term  Director  means the Director of the Office of Management and Budget. (e)  Rule of construction  Nothing in this section may be construed as requiring the disclosure of matters that are otherwise not subject to disclosure under section 552(b) of title 5, United States Code (commonly referred to as the Freedom of Information Act). 
