 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Foreign Agents Registration Modernization Act of 2021  or the  FARM Act of 2021 .
 2.  Format for registration statements filed under Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938  (a)  Requiring registration statements To be in structured data format Section 2(g) of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended ( 22 U.S.C. 612(g) ) is amended by striking  in electronic form  and inserting  in an electronic, structured data format under which the statement or supplement shall be published in a publicly-available, machine-processable digital format for purposes of the National Foreign Agents Database under section 6(d) . (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to statements filed on or after the expiration of the 180-day period which begins on the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 3.  Requirements for electronic database of registration statements  (a) Requiring database To be searchable and sortable by public; designation of database as  National Foreign Agents Database Section 6(d)(1) of the Foreign Agents Registration Act of 1938, as amended ( 22 U.S.C. 616(d)(1) ) is amended— (1) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking  to the extent technically practicable, ; (2) in the matter preceding subparagraph (A), by striking  an electronic database  and inserting an electronic database to be known as the  National Foreign Agents Database ; and (3) in subparagraph (A), by striking  includes the information  and inserting includes in a digitized format meeting digital accessibility standards as outlined in section 508 of the Rehabilitation Act of 1973 ( 29 U.S.C. 794d ) the information. (b)  Requiring immediate posting of statements upon receipt Section 6(d)(2) of such Act ( 22 U.S.C. 616(d)(2) ) is amended by striking  as soon as technically practicable  and inserting  immediately .  (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall take effect upon the expiration of the 180-day period which begins on the date of the enactment of this Act. 
