 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Promoting Responsibility Over Moderation In the Social-media Environment Act  or the  PROMISE Act .
 2.  Purpose  The purpose of this Act is to ensure that users of a covered entity have the necessary information regarding such entity's policy on moderating information provided by a user or other information content provider. Access to such a policy enables users to make informed choices regarding the use or purchase of services provided by the covered entity and promotes a competitive marketplace for such services. 
 3.  Information moderation policies  (a)  Requirement  (1)  In general  A covered entity—  (A)  shall implement and operate in accordance with an information moderation policy (as described in paragraph (2));  (B)  shall disclose such information moderation policy in a publicly available and easily accessible manner; and  (C)  shall not make a deceptive policy statement with respect to such information moderation policy.  (2)  Information moderation policy  The information moderation policy described in this paragraph is a policy that accurately describes, in plain, easy to understand language, information regarding the business practices of a covered entity with respect to the standards, processes, and policies of the covered entity on moderating information provided by a user or other information content provider, including—  (A)  any category of information that—  (i)  the covered entity does not permit on its service; or  (ii)  is subject to moderation by users or providers of such covered entity;  (B)  the process which a user or provider of the covered entity utilizes to moderate information posted, published, or otherwise displayed on the service; and  (C)  the notification process, if any, which the covered entity uses to inform a user—  (i)  that such user's information has been moderated;  (ii)  of the rationale justifying the moderation decision; and  (iii)  of the user's options for redress, if any.  (b)  Enforcement by the Federal Trade Commission  (1)  Unfair or deceptive acts or practices A violation of subsection (a) shall constitute an unfair or deceptive act or practice in commerce in violation of section 5(a) of the Federal Trade Commission Act ( 15 U.S.C. 45(a) ). (2)  Powers of commission Subject to paragraphs (4) and (5), the Commission shall enforce subsection (a) in the same manner, by the same means, and with the same jurisdiction, powers, and duties as though all applicable terms and provisions of the Federal Trade Commission Act ( 15 U.S.C. 41 et seq. ) were incorporated into and made a part of this section. Any person who violates subsection (a) shall be subject to the penalties and entitled to the privileges and immunities provided in such Act. (3)  Regulations  The Commission shall prescribe, in accordance with section 553 of title 5, United States Code, such regulations as are necessary to carry out the purposes of this section, including regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to administer and carry out the purposes and objectives of this section.  (4)  Presumption of materiality  With respect to a violation of subsection (a), there shall be a rebuttable presumption that a deceptive policy statement is material and likely to cause injury.  (5)  Application to common carriers Notwithstanding the definition of the term  Acts to regulate commerce  in section 4 of the Federal Trade Commission Act ( 15 U.S.C. 44 ) and the exception provided by section 5(a)(2) of such Act ( 15 U.S.C. 45(a)(2) ) for common carriers, the Commission shall enforce subsection (a), in the same manner provided in paragraphs (1) through (4), with respect to covered entities that are common carriers for purposes of such section 5(a)(2). (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Commission The term  Commission  means the Federal Trade Commission. (2)  Covered entity The term  covered entity  means an entity that— (A)  is an interactive computer service;  (B)  is engaged in interstate or foreign commerce; and  (C)  moderates information provided by a user or other information content provider.  (3)  Deceptive policy statement The term  deceptive policy statement  means an oral or written representation, omission, or practice made by an officer, director, or other authorized agent of a covered entity regarding such covered entity's information moderation policy that— (A)  misleads or is likely to mislead a reasonable individual regarding the covered entity's service; and  (B)  affects or is likely to affect a reasonable individual's choice to use or use of the covered entity's service.  (4)  Information content provider The term  information content provider  has the meaning given such term in section 230(f) of the Communications Act of 1934 ( 47 U.S.C. 230(f) ). (5)  Interactive computer service The term  interactive computer service  has the meaning given such term in section 230(f) of the Communications Act of 1934 ( 47 U.S.C. 230(f) ). (6)  Moderate With respect to information provided by a user or other information content provider, the term  moderate  means— (A)  to remove or otherwise restrict access to or the availability of such information;  (B)  to edit or otherwise alter such information; or  (C)  to post, publish, or otherwise display a warning, fact-check notice, or other label in conjunction with such information. 
