 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Safe Roads Act of 2021 .
 2.  Motor vehicle safety standard  (a)  Motor vehicle safety standard for truck tractors with electronic stability control  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary of Transportation shall—  (1)  prescribe a motor vehicle safety standard under section 30111 of title 49, United States Code, that requires any truck-tractor subject to Federal motor vehicle safety standard 136 (49 C.F.R. 571.136; relating to electronic stability control systems for heavy vehicles) that is manufactured after the effective date of the standard to be equipped with an automatic emergency braking system; and  (2)  include standards that establish the performance requirements for automatic emergency braking systems.  (b)  Federal motor carrier safety regulation for truck tractors with electronic stability control  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall prescribe a regulation under section 31136 of title 49, United States Code, that requires an automatic emergency braking system installed in any truck-tractor subject to Federal motor vehicle safety standard 136 (49 C.F.R. 571.136; relating to electronic stability control systems for heavy vehicles) in operation on or after the effective date to be used at any time during which the truck-tractor is in operation.  (c)  Report on automatic emergency braking in medium commercial motor vehicles  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall—  (1)  complete a study on equipping commercial motor vehicles with automatic emergency braking to avoid or mitigate a collision with an obstacle in the path of the vehicle;   (2)  submit to the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate and the Committees on Transportation and Infrastructure and Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives a report on the study described in paragraph (1); and  (3)  if the Secretary determines it to be necessary, initiate a Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard for automatic emergency braking for all commercial motor vehicles, if appropriate.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Automatic emergency braking system The term  automatic emergency braking system  means a system on a commercial motor vehicle that, based on a predefined distance and closing rate with respect to an obstacle in the path of the vehicle— (A)  alerts the driver of the obstacle; and  (B)  if necessary, to avoid or mitigate a collision with the obstacle, automatically applies the brakes of the vehicle.  (2)  Commercial motor vehicle The term  commercial motor vehicle  means a motor vehicle or truck-tractor used in commerce to transport property that has a gross vehicle weight rating or a gross vehicle weight of not less than 10,001 pounds. (3)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Transportation. 
