 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Stop for School Buses Act of 2021 .
 2.  Illegal passing of schoolbuses  (a)  Review of illegal passing laws  (1)  In general  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall—  (A)  prepare a compilation of illegal passing laws in all States, including levels of enforcement and penalties and enforcement issues with such laws and the impact of such laws on illegal passing of schoolbuses in each State;  (B)  review existing State laws that may inhibit effective schoolbus loading zone countermeasures, which may include laws requiring camera visibility of a driver’s face for enforcement action, laws that may reduce stop-arm camera effectiveness, the need for an officer to witness the event for enforcement, and the lack of primary enforcement for texting and driving;  (C)  evaluate methods used by States to review, document, and report to law enforcement schoolbus stop-arm violations; and  (D)  following the completion of the compilation, issue recommendations on best practices on the most effective approaches to address illegal passing of schoolbuses.  (2)  Publication  The compilation and recommendations prepared under paragraph (1) shall be made publicly available on the website of the Department of Transportation.  (b)  Public safety messaging campaign  (1)  In general  Not later than 1 year after the date on which the Secretary makes the compilation and recommendations under subsection (a)(2) publicly available, the Secretary shall create and execute a public safety messaging campaign for distribution to States, divisions of motor vehicles, schools, and other public outlets to highlight the dangers of the illegal passing of schoolbuses, and should include educating students and the public on safe loading and unloading of schoolbuses.  (2)  Consultation  The Secretary shall consult with public and private schoolbus industry representatives and States in developing the campaign materials.  (3)  Update  The Secretary shall periodically update such materials.  (c)  Review of technologies  (1)  In general  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall review and evaluate the effectiveness of various technologies to enhance schoolbus safety, including cameras, audible warning systems, enhanced lighting, and other technological solutions.  (2)  Content  The review under paragraph (1)—  (A)  shall include an evaluation of the costs of new equipment and the potential impact on overall schoolbus ridership;  (B)  shall include an evaluation of advanced technologies surrounding loading zone safety;  (C)  shall include an evaluation of motion-activated detection systems that are capable of—  (i)  detecting pedestrians, bicyclists, and other road users located near the exterior of the schoolbus; and  (ii)  alerting the operator of the schoolbus of the road users described in clause (i);  (D)  shall include an evaluation of schoolbus lighting systems, to ensure clear communication to surrounding drivers on their appropriate action; and  (E)  may include other technological solutions that enhance schoolbus safety.  (3)  Consultation  The Secretary shall consult with manufacturers of schoolbus vehicles, manufacturers of various technologies, and school bus industry representatives in conducting the review under paragraph (1).  (4)  Publication  The Secretary shall make the findings of the review under paragraph (1) publicly available on the website of the Department.  (d)  Review of driver education materials  (1)  In general  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall—  (A)  review driver education materials across all States to determine whether and how illegal passing of schoolbuses is addressed in driver education materials, manuals, non-commercial driver’s license testing, and road tests; and  (B)  make recommendations on how States can improve education about illegal passing of schoolbuses, particularly with new drivers.  (2)  Consultation  The Secretary shall consult with schoolbus industry representatives, States, motor vehicle administrators, and other appropriate motor vehicle experts in the preparation of the review under paragraph (1).  (3)  Publication  The Secretary shall make the findings of the review under paragraph (1) publicly available on the website of the Department.  (e)  Review of other safety issues  (1)  In general  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall—  (A)  research the connections between illegal passing of schoolbuses and other safety issues, including distracted driving, morning darkness, poor visibility, illumination and reach of vehicle headlights, speed limits, and schoolbus stop locations in rural areas; and  (B)  create a report containing the findings.  (2)  Publication  The Secretary shall make the report created under paragraph (1)(B) publicly available on the website of the Department. 
