 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Clean Cities Act .
 2.  Clean Cities Coalition Program  (a)  In general  The Secretary shall carry out a program to be known as the Clean Cities Coalition Program.  (b)  Program elements  In carrying out the program under subsection (a), the Secretary shall—  (1)  establish criteria for designating local and regional Clean Cities Coalitions, including criteria that ensure that activities of Clean Cities Coalitions benefit all communities, including rural communities and environmental justice communities;  (2)  designate local and regional Clean Cities Coalitions that the Secretary determines meet the criteria established under paragraph (1);  (3)  ensure that there are active Clean Cities Coalitions working in all 50 States, the District of Columbia, and the territories;  (4)  make awards to each designated Clean Cities Coalition for administrative and program expenses of the coalition;  (5)  make competitive awards to designated Clean Cities Coalitions for projects and activities described in subsection (c);  (6)  make competitive awards to non-profit organizations to provide technical assistance, training, and organizational support to designated Clean Cities Coalitions;  (7)  provide opportunities for communication and sharing of best practices among designated Clean Cities Coalitions; and  (8)  maintain, and make available to the public, a centralized database of information included in the reports submitted under subsection (d).  (c)  Competitive awards  (1)  Projects and activities  Projects and activities eligible for awards under subsection (b)(5) are projects and activities that reduce petroleum consumption, improve air quality, promote energy and economic security, and encourage deployment of a diverse, domestic supply of alternative fuels in the transportation sector by—  (A)  encouraging the purchase and use of alternative fuel vehicles and alternative fuels, including by fleet managers;  (B)  expediting the establishment of local, regional, and national infrastructure to fuel alternative fuel vehicles;  (C)  advancing the use of other petroleum fuel reduction technologies and strategies;  (D)  conducting outreach and education activities to advance the use of alternative fuels and alternative fuel vehicles;  (E)  providing training and technical assistance and tools to users that adopt petroleum fuel reduction technologies; or  (F)  collaborating with and training officials and first responders with responsibility for permitting and enforcing fire, building, and other safety codes related to the deployment and use of alternative fuels or alternative fuel vehicles.  (2)  Cost share  The Federal share of the cost of a project or activity for which an award is made under subsection (b)(5) shall be not less than 80 percent.  (d)  Annual report  Each designated Clean Cities Coalition shall submit an annual report to the Secretary on the activities and accomplishments of the coalition.  (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Alternative fuel The term  alternative fuel  has the meaning given such term in section 32901 of title 49, United States Code. (2)  Alternative fuel vehicle The term  alternative fuel vehicle  means any vehicle that is capable of operating, partially or exclusively, on an alternative fuel. (3)  Community of color The term  community of color  means any geographically distinct area the population of color of which is higher than the average population of color of the State in which the community is located. (4)  Environmental justice community The term  environmental justice community  means any population of color, community of color, indigenous community, or low-income community that experiences a disproportionate burden of the negative human health and environmental impacts of pollution or other environmental hazards. (5)  Indigenous community The term  indigenous community  means— (A)  a federally recognized Indian Tribe;  (B)  a State-recognized Indian Tribe;  (C)  an Alaska Native or Native Hawaiian community or organization; and  (D)  any other community of indigenous people, including communities in other countries.  (6)  Low income The term  low income  means an annual household income equal to, or less than, the greater of— (A)  an amount equal to 80 percent of the median income of the area in which the household is located, as reported by the Department of Housing and Urban Development; and  (B)  200 percent of the Federal poverty line.  (7)  Low-income community The term  low-income community  means any census block group in which 30 percent or more of the population are individuals with low income. (8)  Population of color The term  population of color  means a population of individuals who identify as— (A)  Black;  (B)  African American;  (C)  Asian;  (D)  Pacific Islander;  (E)  another non-White race;  (F)  Hispanic;  (G)  Latino; or  (H)  linguistically isolated.  (9)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Energy. (f)  Funding  (1)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2031, to remain available until expended.  (2)  Allocations  The Secretary shall allocate funds made available to carry out this section in each fiscal year as follows:  (A)  35 percent of such funds shall be distributed as awards under subsection (b)(4).  (B)  50 percent of such funds shall be distributed as competitive awards under subsection (b)(5), of which not less than 40 percent shall be used to support activities that directly benefit rural communities or environmental justice communities.  (C)  5 percent of such funds shall be distributed as competitive awards under subsection (b)(6). 
