
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Bear River National Heritage Area Study Act .
  2.  Definitions  In this Act: 
 (1)  Heritage area The term  Heritage Area  means the Bear River National Heritage Area.  (2)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior.
 (3)  States The term  States  means the States of Utah and Idaho.  (4)  Study area The term  study area  means—
 (A)  areas in the States that are within the main drainage area of the Bear River;   (B)  all of Cache, Box Elder, and Rich Counties in the State of Utah, and Bear Lake, Caribou, Franklin, and Oneida Counties in the State of Idaho; 
 (C)  the following communities in Utah: Bear River, Brigham City, Corinne, Deweyville, Elwood, Fielding, Garland, Honeyville, Howell, Mantua, Perry, Plymouth, Portage, Snowville, Tremonton, Willard, Amalga, Clarkston, Cornish, Hyde Park, Hyrum, Lewiston, Logan, Mendon, Millville, Newton, Nibley, North Logan, Paradise, Providence, Richmond, River Heights, Smithfield, Trenton, Wellsville, Garden City, Laketown, Randolph, and Woodruff;   (D)  the following communities in Idaho: Malad, Clifton, Dayton, Franklin, Preston, Oxford, Weston, Bancroft, Soda Springs, Grace, Bloomington, Paris, Georgetown, Montpelier, and St. Charles; and 
 (E)  any other areas in the States that—   (i)  have heritage aspects that are similar to the areas described in subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), or (D); and 
 (ii)  are adjacent to, or in the vicinity of, those areas. 
  3.  Study   (a)  In general The Secretary, in consultation with State and local organizations and governmental agencies, Tribal governments, non-profit organizations, and other appropriate entities, shall conduct a study to assess the suitability and feasibility of designating the study area as a National Heritage Area, to be known as the  Bear River National Heritage Area .
 (b)  Requirements  The study shall include analysis, documentation, and determinations on whether the study area—   (1)  has an assemblage of natural, historic, and cultural resources that— 
 (A)  represent distinctive aspects of the people and cultures of the United States;   (B)  are worthy of recognition, conservation, interpretation, and continuing use; and 
 (C)  would be best managed—   (i)  through partnerships among public and private entities; and 
 (ii)  by linking diverse and sometimes noncontiguous resources and active communities;   (2)  reflects traditions, customs, beliefs, and folklife that are a valuable part of the story of the United States; 
 (3)  provides outstanding opportunities—   (A)  to conserve natural, historic, cultural, or scenic features; and 
 (B)  for recreation and education;   (4)  contains resources that— 
 (A)  are important to any identified themes of the study area; and   (B)  retain a degree of integrity capable of supporting interpretation; 
 (5)  includes residents, business interests, non-profit organizations, and State, local, and Tribal governments, and other appropriate entities that—   (A)  are involved in the planning of the Heritage Area; 
 (B)  have developed a conceptual financial plan that outlines the roles of all participants in the Heritage Area, including the Federal Government; and   (C)  have demonstrated support for the designation of the Heritage Area; 
 (6)  has a potential management entity to work in partnership with the individuals and entities described in paragraph (5) to develop the Heritage Area while encouraging State and local economic activity;   (7)  could impact the rights of private property owners with respect to their private property; and 
 (8)  has a conceptual boundary map that is supported by the public. 
  4.  Report  Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are first made available to carry out this Act, the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate a report that describes— 
 (1)  the findings of the study under section 3; and   (2)  any conclusions and recommendations of the Secretary. 

