 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Afghanistan Security Through Intelligence Act . 
 2.  National Intelligence Estimate on security situation in Afghanistan and related region  (a)  Requirement  The Director of National Intelligence, acting through the National Intelligence Council, shall produce a National Intelligence Estimate on the situation in Afghanistan and the covered region.  (b)  Matters  The National Intelligence Estimate produced under subsection (a) shall include, with respect to the 2-year period beginning on the date on which the Estimate is produced, an assessment of the following:  (1)  The presence in Afghanistan (including financial contributions to the Taliban, political relations with the Taliban, military presence in the covered region, economic presence in the covered region, and diplomatic presence in the covered region) of China, Iran, Pakistan, Russia, and any other foreign country determined relevant by the Director, respectively, and an assessment of the potential risks, or benefits, of any such presence, contributions, or relations.  (2)  Any change in the threat to the United States homeland or United States entities abroad as a result of the withdrawal of the Armed Forces from Afghanistan on August 31, 2021, including an assessment of the risk of al-Qaeda or any affiliates thereof, the Islamic State of Iraq and ash Sham-Khorasan or any affiliates thereof, or any other similar international terrorist group, using Afghanistan as a safe haven for launching attacks on the United States and its interests abroad.  (3)  The political composition and sustainability of the governing body of Afghanistan, including an assessment of the ability of the United States Government to influence the policies of such governing body on the following:  (A)  Counterterrorism.  (B)  Counternarcotics.  (C)  Human rights (particularly regarding women and girls and traditionally targeted ethnic groups).  (D) The treatment and safe transit of Afghans holding special immigrant visa status under section 602 of the Afghan Allies Protection Act of 2009 ( 8 U.S.C. 1101  note) and other Afghans who, during the period beginning in 2001, assisted efforts of the United States in Afghanistan or the covered region. (4)  The effect on the covered region, and Europe, of refugees leaving Afghanistan.  (5)  The commitments of the Taliban relating to counterterrorism, including an assessment of—  (A)  whether such commitments required under the agreement entered into between the United States Government and the Taliban in February 2020, have been tested, or will be tested during the 2-year period covered by the Estimate, and what such commitments entail;  (B)  whether any additional commitments relating to counterterrorism agreed to by the Taliban pursuant to subsequent negotiations with the United States Government following February 2020, have been tested, or will be tested during the 2-year period covered by the Estimate, and, if applicable, what such commitments entail;  (C)  any benchmarks against which the Taliban are to be evaluated with respect to commitments relating to counterterrorism; and  (D)  the intentions and capabilities of the Taliban with respect to counterterrorism (as such term is understood by the United States and by the Taliban, respectively), including the relations of the Taliban with al-Qaeda or any affiliates thereof, the Islamic State of Iraq and ash Sham-Khorasan or any affiliates thereof, or any other similar international terrorist group.  (c)  Submission to Congress  (1)  Submission  Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees the National Intelligence Estimate produced under subsection (a), including all intelligence reporting underlying the Estimate.  (2)  Form  The National Intelligence Estimate shall be submitted under paragraph (1) in classified form.  (d)  Public version  Consistent with the protection of intelligence sources and methods, at the same time as the Director submits to the congressional intelligence committees the National Intelligence Estimate under subsection (c), the Director shall make publicly available on the internet website of the Director an unclassified version of the key findings of the National Intelligence Estimate.  (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Congressional intelligence committees The term  congressional intelligence committees  means the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.  (2)  Covered region The term  covered region  includes the following countries: (A)  China.  (B)  The Gulf Cooperation Council countries, including Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates.  (C)  India.  (D)  Iran.  (E)  Pakistan.  (F)  Tajikistan.  (G)  Turkey.  (H)  Turkmenistan.  (I)  Uzbekistan.  (3)  United States entity The term  United States entity  means a citizen of the United States, an embassy or consulate of the United States, or an installation, facility, or personnel of the United States Government.
 3.  Report on intelligence collection posture and other matters relating to Afghanistan and related region  (a)  Report  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the heads of elements of the intelligence community determined relevant by the Director, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees a report on the collection posture of the intelligence community and other matters relating to Afghanistan and the covered region.  (b)  Matters  The report under subsection (a) shall include the following:  (1)  A detailed description of the collection posture of the intelligence community with respect to Afghanistan, including with respect to the following:  (A)  The countering of terrorism threats that are directed at the United States homeland or United States entities abroad.  (B)  The finances of the Taliban, including financial contributions to the Taliban from foreign countries (particularly from China, Iran, Russia, and any other foreign country in the Arab Gulf region (or elsewhere) determined relevant by the Director, respectively).  (C)  The detection, and prevention of, any increased threat to the United States homeland or United States entities abroad as a result of the withdrawal of the United States Armed Forces from Afghanistan on August 31, 2021, including any such increased threat resulting from al-Qaeda or any affiliates thereof, the Islamic State of Iraq and ash Sham-Khorasan or any affiliates thereof, or any other similar international terrorist group, using Afghanistan as a safe harbor.  (2)  A detailed description of any plans, strategies, or efforts to improve the collection posture described in paragraph (1)(A), including by filling any gaps identified pursuant to such paragraph.  (3)  An assessment of the effect of publicly documenting abuses engaged in by the Taliban, and a description of the efforts of the intelligence community to support other departments and agencies in the Federal Government with respect to the collection and documentation of such abuses.  (4)  An assessment of the relationship between the intelligence community and countries in the covered region, including an assessment of the following:  (A)  Intelligence and information sharing with such countries.  (B)  Any change in the collection posture of the intelligence community with respect to the nuclear activities of such countries as a result of the withdrawal of the United States Armed Forces from Afghanistan on August 31, 2021.  (C)  The collection posture of the intelligence community with respect to the presence of such countries in Afghanistan (including financial contributions to the Taliban, political relations with the Taliban, military presence in Afghanistan, economic presence in Afghanistan, and diplomatic presence in Afghanistan) and the understanding of the intelligence community regarding the potential risks, or benefits, of any such presence, contributions, or relations.  (D)  The ability of the intelligence community to use the airspace of any such countries.  (5)  An assessment of any financial contributions to the Taliban from foreign countries (particularly from China, Iran, Russia, and any other foreign country in the Arab Gulf region (or elsewhere) determined relevant by the Director, respectively) made during the year preceding the withdrawal of the United States Armed Forces from Afghanistan on August 31, 2021.  (c)  Form  The report under subsection (a) may be submitted in classified form, but shall include an unclassified summary.  (d)  Biannual updates  On a biannual basis during the 5-year period following the date of the submission of the report under subsection (a), the Director of National Intelligence, in consultation with the heads of the elements of the intelligence community determined relevant by the Director, shall submit to the congressional intelligence committees an update to such report.  (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Congressional intelligence committees The term  congressional intelligence committees  means the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate.  (2)  Covered region The term  covered region  includes the following countries: (A)  China.  (B)  The Gulf Cooperation Council countries, including Qatar, Saudi Arabia, the United Arab Emirates.  (C)  India.  (D)  Iran.  (E)  Pakistan.  (F)  Tajikistan.  (G)  Turkey.  (H)  Turkmenistan.  (I)  Uzbekistan.  (3)  United States entity The term  United States entity  means a citizen of the United States, an embassy or consulate of the United States, or an installation, facility, or personnel of the United States Government.
