 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Dental Care for Veterans Act . 
 2.  Requirement that Secretary of Veterans Affairs furnish dental care in the same manner as any other medical service  (a)  Dental benefits  (1)  In general  Title 38, United States Code, is amended—  (A) in section 1701(6), by striking  as described in sections 1710 and 1712 of this title ; (B)  in section 1710(c), by striking the second sentence;  (C)  in section 1712—  (i)  by striking subsections (a) and (b);  (ii)  by redesignating subsections (c), (d), (e), and (f) as subsections (a), (b), (c), and (d), respectively; and  (iii)  in subsection (a), as redesignated by subparagraph (B)—  (I) by striking  Dental appliances  and inserting  The Secretary may furnish dentures, dental appliances ; and (II) by striking  to be furnished by the Secretary under this section may be procured by the Secretary  and inserting  under this section and may procure such appliances ; and (D)  by striking section 2062.  (2)  Phased eligibility  The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall apply as follows:  (A) In the case of an individual who is eligible for dental services and appliances furnished by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under  chapter 17  of title 38, United States Code, on the date of the enactment of this Act, beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act. (B)  In the case of a veteran who is not so eligible on the date of the enactment of this Act and who is described in paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (a) of section 1705 of such title, beginning on the date that is one year after the date of the enactment of this Act.  (C)  In the case of a veteran who is not so eligible on the date of the enactment of this Act and who is described in paragraph (3) or (4) of subsection (a) of section 1705 of such title, beginning on the date that is two years after the date of the enactment of this Act.  (D)  In the case of a veteran who is not so eligible on the date of the enactment of this Act and who is described in paragraph (5) or (6) of subsection (a) of section 1705 of such title, beginning on the date that is three years after the date of the enactment of this Act.  (E)  In the case of a veteran who is not so eligible on the date of the enactment of this Act and who is described in paragraph (7) or (8) of subsection (a) of section 1705 of such title, beginning on the date that is four years after the date of the enactment of this Act.  (b)  Conforming amendments Section 1525(a) of title 38, United States Code, is amended by striking  medicines under section 1712(d)  and inserting  medicines under section 1712(b) . (c)  Clerical amendments  Such title is further amended—  (1) in section 1712, in the heading for such section, by striking  Dental care  and inserting  Appliances ; (2)  in the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 17, by striking the item relating to section 1712 and inserting the following new item:  1712. Appliances; drugs and medicines for certain disabled veterans; vaccines.  ;  and   (3)  in the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 20, by striking the item relating to section 2062. 
