 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Streamlining Public Company Accounting Oversight Act .
 2.  Transfer of Public Company Accounting Oversight Board to Securities and Exchange Commission  (a)  Global amendments Title I of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( 15 U.S.C. 7211 et seq. ) is amended— (1) in the title heading, by striking  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  and inserting  Office of Public Accounting Oversight ;  (2) by striking  Public Company Accounting Oversight Board  each place it appears and inserting  Office of Public Accounting Oversight ; (3) by striking  the Board  each place it appears and inserting  the Office ;  (4) by striking  The Board  each place it appears and inserting  The Office ; and (5) by striking  the Board’s  each place it appears and inserting  the Office’s .  (b)  Repeals Sections 104, 105, and 107 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( 15 U.S.C. 7214 ;  15 U.S.C. 7215 ;  15 U.S.C. 7217 ) are repealed. (c)  References  Beginning on the date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, any reference to the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board in any law, regulation, map, document, record, or other paper of the United States shall be deemed to be a reference to the Office of Public Accounting Oversight of the Office of the Chief Accountant of the Securities and Exchange Commission.  (d)  Termination of existing Board  The Public Company Accounting Oversight Board shall terminate on the date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 3.  Establishment; administrative provisions Section 101 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( 15 U.S.C. 7211 ) is amended— (1)  by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:   (a)  Establishment of Office  There is established in the Office of the Chief Accountant of the Commission an Office of Public Accounting Oversight, to oversee the audit of companies that are subject to the securities laws, and related matters, in order to protect the interests of investors and further the public interest in the preparation of informative, accurate, and independent audit reports.  ;  (2)  by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:   (b)  Director  The Chief Accountant of the Office of the Chief Accountant of the Commission shall serve as the Director of the Office of Public Accounting Oversight.  ;  (3)  in subsection (c)—  (A) in the heading, by striking  the Board  and inserting  the Office ; (B) by striking  , subject to action by the Commission under section 107, and once a determination is made by the Commission under subsection (d) of this section ; (C) in paragraph (3), by striking  section 104  and inserting  subsection (e) ; (D) in paragraph (4), by striking  section 105  and inserting  subsection (f) ; (E)  in paragraph (5)—  (i) by striking  the Board (or the Commission, by rule or order)  and inserting  the Commission ; and (ii) by inserting  and  after the semicolon;  (F)  in paragraph (6)—  (i) by striking  the rules of the Board  and inserting  the rules of the Commission ; and (ii) by striking  ; and  and inserting a period; and  (G)  by striking paragraph (7);  (4)  in subsection (d)—  (A) by striking  The members of the Board  and inserting  The Chief Accountant of the Office of the Chief Accountant of the Commission ;  (B) by striking  270 days after the date of enactment of this Act  and inserting 1 year after the date of the enactment of the  Streamlining Public Company Accounting Oversight Act ; and (C)  by striking the last sentence;  (5)  by striking subsections (e), (f), and (g);  (6)  by inserting after subsection (d) the following:  (e)  Inspections of registered public accounting firms  The Office shall conduct a continuing program of inspections to assess the degree of compliance of each registered public accounting firm and associated persons of that firm with this Act, the rules of the Commission, or professional standards, in connection with its performance of audits, issuance of audit reports, and related matters involving issuers.   (f)  Investigations and disciplinary proceedings  The Commission shall establish, by rule, fair procedures for the investigation and disciplining of registered public accounting firms and associated persons of such firms.   ;  (7)  by redesignating subsection (h) as subsection (g); and  (8) in the heading of subsection (g), as so redesignated, by striking  the Board  and inserting  the Office .
 4.  Registration with the Office Section 102 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( 15 U.S.C. 7212 ) is amended— (1) in the section heading by striking  the Board  and inserting  the Office ; (2) in subsection (b)(2)(H), by striking  the Board or the ; and (3) in subsection (c)(2), by striking   for purposes of sections 105(d) and 107(c) .
 5.  Auditing, quality control, standards, and rules Section 103 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( 15 U.S.C. 7213 ) is amended— (1) in the heading, by striking  and Independence Standards  and inserting  Standards, and ; (2)  in subsection (a)(3)—  (A) in subparagraph (A)(i), by striking  , subject to the terms of section 107, ; (B)  by striking subparagraph (B); and  (C)  by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B);   (3) in subsection (c) in the heading of paragraph (2), by striking  Board  and inserting  Office ; and (4) in subsection (d), by striking  101(h)  and inserting  101(g) .
 6.  Foreign public accounting firms Section 106 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( 15 U.S.C. 7216 ) is amended— (1) in the heading of subsection (a)(2), by striking  Board  and inserting  Office ; and (2)  in subsection (c)—  (A) by striking  and the Board, subject to the approval of the Commission, may, ; and (B) by striking  (or Board) .
 7.  Funding Section 109 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( 15 U.S.C. 7219 ) is amended—  (1)  by amending subsection (b) to read as follows:   (b)  Annual budgets  (1)  Standard setting body  The standard setting body referred to in subsection (a) shall establish a budget for each fiscal year, which shall be reviewed and approved according to their respective internal procedures not less than 1 month prior to the commencement of the fiscal year to which the budget pertains.  (2)  The Office  The Commission shall establish the budget for the Office for each fiscal year.   ;  (2)  in subsection (c)—  (A)  by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:   (1)  Recoverable budget expenses  (A)  Standard setting body  The budget of the standard setting body referred to in subsection (a) for each fiscal year shall be payable from annual accounting support fees, in accordance with subsections (d) and (e). Accounting support fees and other receipts of such standard-setting body shall not be considered public monies of the United States.  (B)  The Office  The budget of the Office (reduced by any registration or annual fees received under section 102(f) for the year preceding the year for which the budget is being computed) for each fiscal year may be payable from annual accounting support fees, in accordance with subsections (d) and (e). Accounting support fees and other receipts of the Office.  ;  (B) in paragraph (2), by striking  shall  and inserting  may ;  (3)  in subsection (d)—  (A) in the heading, by striking  the Board  and inserting  the Office ; (B) in paragraph (1), by striking  The Board shall establish, with the approval of the Commission,  and inserting  The Commission may establish ; (C) in paragraph (2), by striking  shall  and inserting  may ; and (D)  by striking paragraph (3);  (4)  in subsection (j)—  (A) by striking  either the Board, ; and (B) by striking  , or both, ; and  (5)  by striking subsection (k). 
 8.  Definitions Section 110 of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( 15 U.S.C. 7220 ) is amended— (1)  by redesignating paragraphs (5) and (6) as paragraphs (6) and (7); and  (2)  by inserting after paragraph (4) the following:  (5)  Office The term  Office  means the Office of Public Accounting Oversight of the Office of the Chief Accountant of the Commission. . 
 9.  Technical and conforming amendments  (a)  Definitions Section 2(a)(9)(C) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( 15 U.S.C. 7201 ) is amended by striking  , 101(c), 105, and 107(c) and the rules of the Board and Commission issued thereunder  and inserting  and 101(c) and the rules of the Commission thereunder . (b)  Exemption authority Section 201(b) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( 15 U.S.C. 7231(b) ) is amended— (1) by striking  The Board may  and inserting  The Commission may ; and (2) by striking  in the same manner as for rules of the Board under section 107. . (c)  Self-Regulatory organization Section 603(y)(3) of the Consumer Credit Protection Act ( 15 U.S.C. 1681a(y)(3) ) is amended by striking  any entity established under title I of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002, .
 10.  Rule of construction with respect to cooperative arrangements Nothing in this Act, or the amendments made by this Act, shall be construed to invalidate or otherwise affect a cooperative arrangement between the Public Company Accounting Oversight Board and a foreign auditor oversight authority (as defined in section 2(a) of the Sarbanes-Oxley Act of 2002 ( 15 U.S.C. 7201(a) )) in effect on the date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 11.  Regulations  The Securities and Exchange Commission may issue such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this Act. 
 12.  Effective date  The amendments made by this Act shall take effect on the date that is 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act.  
