
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  TSA Reaching Across Nationalities, Societies, and Languages to Advance Traveler Education Act  or the  TRANSLATE Act .
  2.  Plan   (a)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Transportation Security Administration (TSA) shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a plan to ensure that TSA material disseminated in major airports can be better understood by more people accessing such airports. 
 (b)  Contents  The plan required under subsection (a) shall include the following:   (1)  An identification of the most common languages other than English that are the primary languages of individuals that travel through or work in each major airport. 
 (2)  A plan to improve—   (A)  TSA materials to communicate information in languages identified pursuant to paragraph (1); and 
 (B)  the communication of TSA material to individuals with vision or hearing impairments or other possible barriers to understanding such material.   (c)  Considerations  In developing the plan required under subsection (a), the Administrator of the TSA, acting through the Office of Civil Rights and Liberties, Ombudsman, and Traveler Engagement of the TSA, shall take into consideration data regarding the following: 
 (1)  International enplanement.   (2)  Local populations surrounding major airports. 
 (d)  Implementation  Not later than 180 days after the submission of the plan required under subsection (a), the Administrator of the TSA shall implement such plan.   (e)  GAO review  Not later than one year after the implementation pursuant to subsection (d) of the plan required under subsection (a), the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a review of such implementation. 
 (f)  Definitions  In this section:   (1)  Airport The term  airport  has the meaning given such term in section 40102 of title 49, United States Code.
 (2)  Major airports The term  major airports  means Category X and Category I airports.  (3)  Non-traveling individual The term  non-traveling individual  has the meaning given such term in section 1560.3 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations.
 (4)  TSA material The term  TSA material  means signs, videos, audio messages, websites, press releases, social media postings, and other communications published and disseminated by the Administrator of the TSA in Category X and Category I airports for use by both traveling and non-traveling individuals.
 