
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Tribal Coastal Resiliency Act .
  2.  Grants to further achievement of Tribal coastal zone objectives   (a)  Grants authorized The Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 ( 16 U.S.C. 1451  et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

 320.  Grants to further achievement of Tribal coastal zone objectives 
 (a)  Grants authorized  The Secretary may award competitive grants to Indian Tribes to further achievement of the objectives of such a Tribe for its Tribal coastal zone.   (b)  Cost share   (1)  In general  The Federal share of the cost of any activity carried out with a grant under this section shall be— 
 (A)  in the case of a grant of less than $200,000, 100 percent of such cost; and   (B)  in the case of a grant of $200,000 or more, 95 percent of such cost, except as provided in paragraph (2). 
 (2)  Waiver  The Secretary may waive the application of paragraph (1)(B) with respect to a grant to an Indian Tribe, or otherwise reduce the portion of the share of the cost of an activity required to be paid by an Indian Tribe under such paragraph, if the Secretary determines that the Tribe does not have sufficient funds to pay such portion.   (c)  Compatibility  The Secretary may not award a grant under this section unless the Secretary determines that the activities to be carried out with the grant are compatible with this title and that the grantee has consulted with the affected coastal state regarding the grant objectives and purposes. 
 (d)  Authorized objectives and purposes  Amounts awarded as a grant under this section shall be used for one or more of the objectives and purposes authorized under subsections (b) and (c), respectively, of section 306A.   (e)  Funding  Of amounts appropriated to carry out this Act, $5,000,000 is authorized to carry out this section for each fiscal year. 
 (f)  Definitions  In this section:   (1)  Indian land The term  Indian land  has the meaning that term has under section 2601 of the Energy Policy Act of 1992 ( 25 U.S.C. 3501 ).
 (2)   Indian Tribe The term  Indian Tribe  means an Indian tribe, as that term is defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ( 25 U.S.C. 5304 ).  (3)  Tribal coastal zone The term  Tribal coastal zone  means any Indian land of an Indian Tribe that is within the coastal zone.
 (4)  Tribal coastal zone objective The term  Tribal coastal zone objective  means, with respect to an Indian Tribe, any of the following objectives:  (A)  Protection, restoration, or preservation of areas in the Tribal coastal zone of such Tribe that hold— 
 (i)  important ecological, cultural, or sacred significance for such Tribe; or   (ii)  traditional, historic, and esthetic values essential to such Tribe. 
 (B)  Preparing and implementing a special area management plan and technical planning for important coastal areas.   (C)  Any coastal or shoreline stabilization measure, including any mitigation measure, for the purpose of public safety, public access, or cultural or historical preservation. 
 . 
 (b)  Guidance  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce shall issue guidance for the program established under the amendment made by subsection (a), including the criteria for awarding grants under such program based on consultation with Indian Tribes (as that term is defined in that amendment).   (c)  Use of State grants To fulfill Tribal objectives Section 306A(c)(2) of the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 ( 16 U.S.C. 1455a(c)(2) ) is amended by striking  and  after the semicolon at the end of subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting  ; and , and by adding at the end the following:

 (F)  fulfilling any Tribal coastal zone objective (as that term is defined in section 320).  .   (d)  Other programs not affected Nothing in this section shall be construed to affect the ability of an Indian Tribe to apply for, receive assistance under, or participate in any program authorized by the Coastal Zone Management Act of 1972 ( 16 U.S.C. 1451  et seq.) or other related Federal laws.

