 1.  Short title; table of contents  (a)  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Building the Next Generation of Federal Employees Act . (b)  Table of contents  The table of contents for this Act is as follows:  Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.  Sec. 2. Definitions.  Sec. 3. Federal internship and fellowship center.  Sec. 4. Internship coordinator.  Sec. 5. Online Federal Government internship platform.  Sec. 6. Underserved markets and demographics recruitment pilot program.  Sec. 7. Compensation for Federal interns.  Sec. 8. Establishment of pathways program.  Sec. 9. Enhanced hiring for recent college graduates and post-secondary students.  Sec. 10. Information on use of expedited hiring authority for college graduates.  Sec. 11. Competitive service examination credit. 
 2.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Civil service The term  civil service  has the meaning given such term in section 2101 of title 5, United States Code. (2)  Executive agency The term  Executive agency  has the meaning given that term in section 105 of title 5, United States Code. (3)  Fellowship The term  fellowship  means a short-term position (other than a post-fellowship service requirement) that— (A)  is not less than one year and not more than two year in length, or such other period as determined appropriate by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management for the purposes of this paragraph; and  (B)  is intended to provide the recipient with work experience with an Executive agency that is designed to prepare such recipient for potential permanent employment with an Executive agency.  (4)  Fellow The term  fellow  means an individual who receives a fellowship. (5)  Fellowship program The term  fellowship program  means any sponsoring agency program or operation that recruits fellows and administers fellowships in the Federal Government. (6)  Intern The term  intern  means an individual serving in an internship. Interns employed by third-party internship providers and placed in Executive agencies may, to the extent permitted by law or regulation, be treated as participants in any federally sponsored internship programs. (7)  Internship The term  internship  means a short-term position (other than a post-fellowship service requirement) for an individual enrolled in a high school, trade school, technical or vocational institute, junior college, college, university, or comparable recognized educational institution, or the Job Corps program, that is not less than one year and not more than two years in length (or such other period as determined appropriate by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management for the purposes of this paragraph), designed to prepare such individual for potential permanent employment with an Executive agency, and offered under an internship program. Interns at Executive agencies who are supported or administered by third-party internship providers may, to the extent permitted by law and regulations, be treated as participants in any federally sponsored internship program. (8)  Internship program The term  internship program  has the meaning given that term in section 3111a(c)(1) of title 5, United States Code. (9)  Job Corps program The term  Job Corps  means the Job Corps program authorized under section 143 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ( 29 U.S.C. 3193 et seq. ). (10)  Mission-critical skill The term  mission-critical skill  means a skill or set of skills that are critical to effectively carrying out the mission of an Executive agency, as determined by the head of such Executive agency in consultation with the Comptroller General of the United States. (11)  Mission-critical skill gap The term  mission-critical skill gap  means a shortage of mission-critical skills causing, or that poses a risk of causing, a substantial detrimental effect on the ability of an Executive agency to effectively carry out the mission of such Executive agency in a manner that is cost effective, as determined by the head of such Executive agency in consultation with the Comptroller General of the United States. (12)  Scholarship The term  scholarship  means financial support— (A)  paid by an Executive agency towards—  (i) the cost of an individual to attend either a course of study leading to a credential that help reduce or eliminate a mission-critical skill gap or another program that requires the student to demonstrate an interest in or agreement to pursue a career in public service at an institution of higher education that is authorized to participate in a Federal student aid program under title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1070 et seq. ); or (ii)  financial support paid by a Executive agency towards the cost of an individual to procure private instruction in a mission-critical skill; and  (B)  which may be paid directly to—  (i)  the individual whose costs the scholarship is intended to pay; or  (ii)  the institutions of higher education in which such individual is enrolled.  (13)  Sponsoring agency The term  sponsoring agency  means any entity of the executive branch of the United States Government, including any Executive agency, any component of the Department of Veterans Affairs, and any other agency (as defined in section 551 of title 5, United States Code), that administers a fellowship or scholarship, or internship program.
 3.  Federal internship and fellowship center  (a)  Establishment of Federal internship and fellowship center  The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall establish and maintain a Federal Fellowship and Scholarship Center to administer, manage, and promote all Government fellowship and internship programs within the executive branch to attract individuals to serve in the Federal Government in a civilian capacity and to facilitate the potential entry of those individuals into the civil service.  (b)  Management of Federal internship and fellowship center  (1)  Chief Human Capital Officers Council guidance  The Chief Human Capital Officers Council shall provide strategic guidance to, and facilitate interagency cooperation with, the head of the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center to help such head more effectively—  (A)  identify and attract interns to the civil service; and  (B)  recruit and hire interns who successfully complete internships into the civil service.  (2)  Regulations  The Director shall issue such regulations as may be necessary to implement and manage the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center, including the regulations described in section 11(d).  (c)  Functions of the Federal internship and fellowship center  The head of the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center shall do the following:  (1)  Establish, maintain, and operate an internet-based platform as part of the Platform established under section 5, that is accessible to the public and contains information regarding every internship and fellowship described in section 11(a), and every scholarship opportunity, available in the executive branch of the Federal Government, including information on how individuals may apply for each such opportunity.  (2)  Promote, and facilitate internship, fellowship, and scholarship programs at the request of any sponsoring agency to meet workforce requirements of such sponsoring agency, especially in mission-critical skill areas.  (3)  Develop a standard application for Federal internships and fellowships for use by applicants and sponsoring agencies as part of the Platform established under section 5, which may be supplemented by additional requirements of each sponsoring agency.  (4)  Ensure eligibility for an appointment under subsection (d) to a position in the civil service for all individuals who—  (A)  (i)  successfully complete at least one year of an internship or fellowship that is part of an internship or fellowship program that is certified under subsection (f); or  (ii)  are the recipients of scholarships; and  (B)  (i)  have obtained a qualifying degree or completed a qualifying career or technical education program, as determined by the Director; or  (ii) are graduates (as defined in section 142 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ( 29 U.S.C. 3192 )). (5)  Develop a standard post-fellowship or post-internship exit interview for use by sponsoring agencies to solicit feedback and input from fellows and interns about their experiences while performing Federal service.  (6)  Develop and promote best practices guidance for agencies on building effective internship and fellowship programs.  (7)  Take such actions as the Director determines necessary to help Federal agencies identify and recruit fellows and interns who could serve as the next generation of Federal public servants.  (d)  Limited noncompetitive eligibility  Under such regulations as the Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall prescribe, a sponsoring agency may make a noncompetitive appointment leading to conversion to career or career-conditional employment of each individual described in subsection (c)(4).  (e)  Sponsoring agency reporting  (1)  Office of Personnel Management  (A)  In general  The head of each sponsoring agency shall submit to the Director a report on the internship and fellowship programs of, and scholarship programs offered by, the sponsoring agency at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director determines appropriate.  (B)  Regulations  Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall issue regulations for the reports required by subparagraph (A).  (2)  Federal Internship and Fellowship Center  (A)  In general  Not later than 60 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and not less than every two years thereafter, the head of each sponsoring agency shall submit to the head of the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center the plan of the sponsoring agency—  (i)  regarding intern and fellow training and engagement; and  (ii)  for ensuring that interns and fellows who complete an internship or fellowship, respectively, of the sponsoring agency qualify for the competitive service examination credit under section 11.  (B)  Plan approval  (i)  In general  The head of the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center shall approve or disapprove each plan submitted under subparagraph (A).  (ii)  Disapproval notice and support  If the head of the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center disapproves of a plan submitted under subparagraph (A), the head shall—  (I)  provide notice of the disapproval and an explanation why the plan was disapproved to the head of the sponsoring agency that submitted the plan; and  (II)  provide technical assistance to such sponsoring agency to resolve the deficiencies of such plan and resubmit it for approval.  (C)  Competitive service examination credit  (i)  In general  If a sponsoring agency fails to submit a plan required under subparagraph (A) or that submits a plan that is disapproved under subparagraph (B), the interns and fellows participating in an internship or fellowship of such sponsoring agency shall be ineligible for competitive service examination credit under section 11 until the date on which such sponsoring agency submits a plan described in subparagraph (A) and the head of the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center approves such plan.  (ii)  Exception  Clause (i) does not apply with respect to a sponsoring agency that submits a plan that is disapprove under subparagraph (B) if, during the two-year period immediately preceding such disapproval, such sponsoring agency submitted a plan that was approved under subparagraph (B).  (f)  Internship provider certification  (1)  In general  The head of the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center shall certify each internship or fellowship program of each sponsoring agency or third-party internship provider that the head determines—  (A)  demonstrates a track record of recruiting diverse intern and fellow talent pools, as applicable, for at least the previous three years;  (B)  possesses a meaningful training and development program for interns and fellows, as applicable;  (C)  uses a non-partisan, merit-based selection process;  (D)  provides career counseling services to interns and fellows, as applicable;  (E)  in the case of a sponsoring agency, provides to the Office of Personnel Management the plans of such sponsoring agency described subsection (e)(2); and  (F)  any other standards that the head of the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center determines appropriate.  (2)  Third-party provider additional requirements  To ensure the advancement of merit systems principles and efficient administration of internship and fellowship programs, the head of the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center may impose additional requirements on a third-party internship provider before certifying the internships or fellowships programs of such third-party internship provider under paragraph (1).  (g)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Career appointee The term  career appointee  has the meaning given such term in section 3132(a) of title 5, United States Code. (2)  Director The term  Director  means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.
 4.  Internship coordinator  (a)  Internship coordinator  Each internship coordinator appointed under section 3111a of title 5, United States Code, shall—  (1)  serve as the main point of contact at the sponsoring agency on all issues related to fellowships, scholarships, and internships;  (2)  establish a mentor program for interns and fellows at the agency that incorporates best practices as determined by the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center pursuant to section 2(c); and  (3)  generate and submit, in accordance with subsection (c)(1), an annual report for the one-year period ending on September 1 of the year in which such report is submitted including—  (A)  the number of interns and fellows who served at the sponsoring agency;  (B)  a list of third-party organizations that supplied internships or fellowships to the sponsoring agency;  (C)  information regarding the demographic characteristics of interns and fellows at such agency, including, but not limited to educational background, age, race, gender, and ethnicity, except that no intern or fellow may be required to provide such demographic characteristics for the purposes of such report;  (D)  a description of the steps taken by the sponsoring agency to prepare and recruit successful interns and fellows for positions in the civil service;  (E)  a description of any barriers to hiring interns or fellows who successfully complete their internships or fellowships, respectively;  (F)  a description of activities engaged in the sponsoring agency to recruit new interns and fellows, including descriptions of locations visited, methods used, and schools and stakeholder organizations engaged;  (G)  a list of the position descriptions for the internships and fellowships offered at each sponsoring agency;  (H)  a description of the mentorship programs of such internship and fellowship programs;  (I)  a summary of exit interviews conducted and surveys administered by a sponsoring agency with respect to interns and fellows upon their completion of an internship or fellowship program at such agency; and  (J)  other information as determined necessary by the internship coordinator.  (b)  In general  The head of each sponsoring agency shall submit, in accordance with subsection (c)(1), an annual report for the one-year period ending on October 1 of the year in which such report is submitted assessing each fellowship and internship program of such sponsoring agency in which fellows or interns, respectively, participated during the reporting period.  (c)  Submission  (1)  Report to OPM  Each report required under subsection (a) or (b) shall be submitted to the Office of Personnel Management between October 1 and October 31 of each year.  (2)  Congressional report  Not later than December 30 of each year, the Office of Personnel Management shall submit to Congress a report summarizing the information submitted to the Office of Personnel Management in accordance with paragraph (1) for such year.  (d)  Rule of construction  Nothing in this section shall be construed as overriding or otherwise permitting any action not permitted under section 552a of title 5, United States Code. 
 5.  Online Federal Government internship platform  (a)  Establishment of an online Federal Government internship platform The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall establish, maintain, and promote an interactive and integrated internet-based platform (in this section referred to as the  Platform ) to serve as a centralized resource and database for the public to learn about and connect with agencies and internship opportunities in Federal public service and for agencies with internship needs and opportunities to identify skill sets and individuals with the skills necessary to address their needs. (b)  Use of the service platform  (1)  Public accessibility  The Director shall determine, and make accessible to the public on the Platform, information about Federal internship, fellowship, and scholarship service organizations and opportunities, without any requirement that a person seeking such access become a member of the Platform.  (2)  Information on Federal agency  Each Executive agency that hosts interns or fellows shall make available on the Platform—  (A)  information sufficient for the public to identify and understand the internship and fellowship opportunities and mission of the Executive agency;  (B)  information on the availability of internship, fellowship, and scholarship opportunities of the Executive agency, including location and duration;  (C)  internet links to the hiring and recruiting websites of the Executive agency; and  (D)  such additional information as the Director may determine.  (c)  Minimum design requirements  In addition to the requirements set forth in this section, the Platform shall do the following:  (1)  Provide the public with access to information on internship, fellowship, and scholarship opportunities that is user-friendly, interactive, accessible, and fully functional through mobile applications and other widely used communications media, without a requirement that any person seeking such access register as a member.  (2)  Provide individuals with the ability to register as members to customize their experience, including mechanisms to connect members with agency internship coordinators and internship, fellowship, and scholarship opportunities that match the interests of the members, and ensure robust search capabilities to facilitate the ability of members to explore Federal internship, fellowship, and scholarship opportunities.  (3)  Include mechanisms to enable agencies to connect with members who have consented to be contacted and meet the needs of sponsoring agencies.  (4)  Incorporate, to the extent permitted by law and regulation, the ability of members to securely upload information on education, employment, and skills, knowledge, and abilities, consistent with security requirements.  (5)  Ensure compatibility, to the greatest extent possible, with relevant information systems of Executive agencies.  (6)  Retain all personal information in a manner that protects the privacy of members in accordance with section 552a of title 5, United States Code, and other applicable law, provide access to information relating to a member only in accordance with the consent of the member, and incorporate data security and control policies that are adequate to ensure the confidentiality and security of information provided and maintained on the internet-based platform.  (d)  Development of service platform plan  (1)  Implementation plan  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall develop a detailed plan to implement the internet-based platform that complies with all the requirements of this section.  (2)  Consultation required  In developing the plan under this subsection, the Director shall consult with the head of the United States Digital Service, the Chief Human Capital Officers Council, and as needed, the heads of other Executive agencies. Such consultation may include seeking assistance in the design, development, and creation of the internet-based platform.  (e)  Reports to Congress  Not later than 12 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, and every 12 months thereafter, the Director shall provide a report to Congress on the internet-based platform. Such report shall include information on the following:  (1)  Details on the status of implementation of the internet-based platform and plans for further development of it.  (2)  Participation rates of sponsoring agencies and members.  (3)  The number of individuals visiting the internet-based platform, the number of agencies participating in the platform, and the number of internship opportunities posted on the internet-based platform in the preceding 12-month period.  (4)  Any cybersecurity or privacy concerns associated with the internet-based platform.  (5)  The results of any surveys or studies undertaken to increase the use and efficacy of the internet-based platform.  (6)  Any additional information the Director considers appropriate.  (f)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Office of Personnel Management for each fiscal year such funds as may be necessary for the development, maintenance, improvement, and promotion of the internet-service platform. 
 6.  Underserved markets and demographics recruitment pilot program  (a)  In general  The Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall, in coordination with the components of Executive agencies and sponsoring agencies responsible for recruiting individuals, carry out a pilot program to engage individuals from demographic populations, such as those defined by gender, geography, socioeconomic status, and mission-critical skills (as determined by a head of a sponsoring agency), that the Director determines are underrepresented in the Federal workforce for possible participation in the civil service.  (b)  Consultation  In developing a pilot program under this section, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall consult with the head of the Federal Internship and Fellowship Center, the Chief Human Capital Officers Council, and the Equal Employment Opportunity Commission to develop best practices for engaging individuals described in subsection (a). 
 7.  Compensation for Federal interns  (a)  In general  Section 3111 of title 5, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in the heading, by striking  volunteer  and inserting  student ; (2)  in subsection (b)—  (A)  in the matter preceding paragraph (1)—  (i) by striking  Notwithstanding section 1342 of title 31, the  and inserting  The ; and (ii) by striking  voluntary service  and inserting  service from a student under this section ; (B)  in paragraph (1)—  (i) by inserting before the semicolon the following:  , but only insofar as the institution provides academic credit to the student for the service ; and (ii) by inserting  and  at the end; (C)  by striking paragraph (2); and  (D)  by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (2);  (3)  in subsection (c)—  (A) by striking  voluntary  each place it appears; and (B) in paragraph (1), by inserting , section 717 of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ( 42 U.S.C. 2000e–16 ), after  for injury) ; (4) in subsection (e)(2)(A), by striking  voluntary service  and inserting  service ; and (5)  by adding at the end the following new subsections:  (f)  An agency may provide reimbursement for transportation and subsistence expenses for any student who provides service under subsection (b), pursuant to regulations issued by the Office of Personnel Management.  (g)  A scholarship that is awarded by the agency to which a student is providing services under subsection (b) and that is awarded based at least in part on such services shall be deemed to be compensation paid to such student for such services.  .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections for  chapter 31  of title 5, United States Code, is amended in the item relating to section 3111 by striking  volunteer  and inserting  student . (c)  Conforming amendments  (1) Section  3111a Section 3111a(c)(1)(A) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking  volunteer service  and inserting  student service . (2)  Section 7905 Section 7905(a)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking  voluntary . (d)  Current students  (1)  In general  Notwithstanding the amendments made by this Act and section 1342 of title 31, United States Code, the head of an Executive agency may accept voluntary services from any student (as defined in section 3111(a) of title 5, United States Code) who, immediately prior to the enactment of this Act, provides such services to such Executive agency under a program established under section 3111(b) of title 5, United States Code, until the earliest date on which such student ceases to participate in such program.  (2)  Controlling law  The acceptance of voluntary service under this subsection shall be in accordance with the law as in effect immediately prior to the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 8.  Establishment of pathways program  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Competitive service The term  competitive service  has the meaning given that term in section 2102 of title 5, United States Code. (2)  Director The term  Director  means the Director of the Office of Personnel Management. (3)  Excepted service The term  excepted service  has the meaning given that term in section 2103 of title 5, United States Code. (b)  Establishment  The Director shall establish a program, to be known as the Pathways Program, which shall—  (1)  promote employment opportunities for students and recent graduates in the Federal workforce by excepting participants in the Program from the competitive service requirements for certain competitive service positions in the civil service; and  (2)  consist of an Internship Program as described in subsection (d), a Recent Graduates Program as described in subsection (e), and a Presidential Management Fellows Program as described in subsection (f).  (c)  Regulations  The Director shall issue regulations for the Pathways Program, including—  (1)  a description of the positions that Executive agencies may fill through the Pathways Program because conditions of good administration necessitate excepting those positions from the competitive hiring rules;  (2)  rules governing whether, to what extent, and in what manner public notice should be provided of job opportunities in the Pathways Program;  (3)  a description of career-development, training, and mentorship opportunities for participants in the Pathways Program;  (4)  requirements that managers assess the performance of participants in the Pathways Program to identify those individuals who should be considered for conversion to career appointments in the civil service;  (5)  a description of oversight by the Office of Personnel Management of the use by Executive agencies of the Pathways Program to ensure that—  (A)  the Pathways Program serves as a supplement to, and not a substitute for, the competitive hiring process; and  (B)  Executive agencies are using the Pathways Program to develop talent for careers in the civil service;  (6)  a description of plans by the Office of Personnel Management to evaluate—  (A)  competitive service requirements for certain positions in the civil service;  (B)  the effectiveness of Executive agencies in recruiting and retaining talent using the Pathways Program; and  (C)  the satisfaction of those students, graduates, and hiring managers participating in the Pathways Program; and  (7)  standard naming conventions across Executive agencies, so that students and recent graduates can clearly understand and compare the career pathway opportunities available to them in the Federal Government.  (d)  Internship Program  (1)  In general  The Internship Program shall provide students in high schools, community colleges, four-year colleges, trade schools, career and technical education programs, the Job Corps program, and other qualifying educational institutions and programs, as determined by the Director, with paid opportunities to work in agencies and explore Federal careers while still in school.  (2)  Requirements and policies  The following requirements and policies shall apply to the Internship Program:  (A)  Participants in the Program shall be students enrolled, or accepted for enrollment, at institution or program described in paragraph (1).  (B)  Subject to such exceptions as may be provided by regulation, Executive agencies shall provide participants in the Internship Program with meaningful developmental work and set clear expectations regarding the work experience of the participant.  (C)  Students employed by third-party, non-federal internship providers but placed in Executive agencies may, to the extent permitted by regulation, be treated as participants in the Internship Program.  (D)  Executive agencies shall participate in the Internship Program for the primary purpose of developing and evaluating talent for future permanent employment with the Federal Government.  (e)  Recent graduates program  (1)  In general  The Recent Graduates Program shall provide individuals who have recently graduated from qualifying educational institutions or programs with developmental experiences in the Federal Government intended to promote possible careers in the civil service.  (2)  Requirements and policies  The following requirements and policies shall apply to the Recent Graduates Program:  (A)  Except as provided in subparagraph (B), participants in the Recent Graduates Program shall have obtained a qualifying degree or completed a qualifying career or technical education program, as determined by the Director, within the 3-year period immediately preceding participation in the Recent Graduates Program.  (B)  Any veteran who, due to the military service obligation of such veteran, was precluded from participating in the Recent Graduates Program during the 3-year period described in subparagraph (A) shall be eligible to participate in the Program within 6 years after obtaining a qualifying degree or completing a qualifying career or technical education program.  (C)  A veteran with respect to which subparagraph (B) applies may participate not more than once in the Recent Graduates Program.  (D)  Responsibilities assigned to a participant in the Recent Graduates Program shall be consistent with the qualifications, educational background, and career interests of such participant, the purpose of the Recent Graduates Program, and the needs of Executive agencies.  (E)  Appointments to the Recent Graduates Program may not exceed two years, except that the employing Executive agency may extend the appointment for up to 120 days.  (3)  Pre-graduation appointments offers  (A)  In general  Executive agencies may, in accordance with subparagraph (B), offer appointments to participate in Recent Graduates Program to individuals who, not later than 182 days after such offer is made, will obtain a qualifying degree or complete a qualifying career or technical education program described in paragraph (2)(A).  (B)  Appointment limitations  An appointment offered under paragraph (A) shall—  (i)  be effective on or after the date on which the offer recipient obtains a qualifying degree or completes a qualifying career or technical education program described in paragraph (2)(A); and  (ii)  be rescinded if the offer recipient does not obtain such a qualifying degree or complete such a qualifying career or technical education program prior to the end of the 182 day period beginning on the date on which the offer is made.  (f)  Presidential management fellows program  (1)  In general  The Presidential Management Fellows Program shall provide opportunities to individuals from various academic disciplines at the graduate level who have an interest in, and commitment to, leading and managing public programs and policies.  (2)  Requirements and policies  The following requirements and policies shall apply to the Presidential Management Fellows Program:  (A)  Participants in the Presidential Management Fellows Program must have received a qualifying advanced degree, as determined by the Director, within the 2-year period immediately preceding participation in the Presidential Management Fellows Program.  (B)  Responsibilities assigned to a Presidential Management Fellow shall be consistent with the qualifications, educational background, and career interests of the fellow, the purposes of the Presidential Management Fellows Program, and Executive agency needs.  (C)  The Office of Personnel Management shall establish the eligibility requirements and minimum qualifications for the Presidential Management Fellows Program, as well as a process for assessing eligible individuals for consideration for appointment to participate in the Presidential Management Fellows Program.  (g)  Pathway program appointments  The following requirements shall apply to appointments in the Pathways Program:  (1)  Appointments to the Pathways Program shall be under the excepted service.  (2)  Appointments to the Pathways Program shall not confer any right to further Federal employment in either the competitive service or the excepted service upon the expiration of the appointment.  (h)  Conversions  (1)  In general The head of an Executive agency may, in accordance with this subsection and without regard to any provision of  chapter 33  of title 5, United States Code, and any other provision of law relating to the examination, certification, and appointment of individuals in the competitive service— (A)  convert the appointments of participants in the Pathways Program (other than participants in the Presidential Management Fellows Program described in subsection (f)) to term, career, or career-conditional appointments in the competitive service; and  (B)  convert the appointments of such participants who are initially converted to a term appointment under subparagraph (A) to a career or career-conditional appointment in the competitive service before the term appointment expires.  (2)  Conversion requirements  (A)  In general  In addition to the requirements under this subsection, the Director may establish requirements for converting an appointment under paragraph (1).  (B)  Internship Program participant  The appointment of a participant in the Internship Program described in subsection (d) may be converted to a career or career-conditional appointment under paragraph (1) only if the participant—  (i)  is a citizen of the United States;  (ii)  has completed not less than one year as a participant in the Internship Program while enrolled as a half- or full-time degree- or certificate-seeking student at an institution or program described in subsection (d)(1);  (iii)  in the 180-day period ending on the date on which the appointment of such participant is converted under paragraph (1), has completed a course of study at an institution or program described in subsection (d)(1);  (iv)  meets the qualification standards for the position to which the participant will be converted, including any requirements of the Executive agency in which such position is located; and  (v)  receives a favorable recommendation from an official of the Executive agency or agencies in which the participant serves under the Internship Program.  (C)  Recent Graduates Program participant  The appointment of a participant in the Recent Graduates Program described in subsection (e) may be converted to a career or career-conditional appointment under paragraph (1) only if the participant—  (i)  is a citizen of the United States;  (ii)  has completed not less than one year of continuous service as a participant in the Recent Graduates Program, except that such one-year requirement shall be reduced by the amount of time, if any, the participant spent as a participant in the Internship Program described in subsection (d);  (iii)  has demonstrated successful performance of the responsibilities of each position to which the participant has been assigned under the Recent Graduates Program;  (iv)  meets the qualification standards for the position to which the participant will be converted, including any requirements of the Executive agency in which such position is located; and  (v)  receives a recommendation for conversion from the immediate supervisor of the participant under the Recent Graduates Program.  (D)  Other agency appointment  The head of an Executive agency may exercise the authority under paragraph (1) with respect to a participant in the Pathways Program not appointed to a position in such Executive agency only if the appointment of such participant is converted to an appointment to a position in such Executive agency.  (3)  Conversion eligibility database  (A)  In general  Not later than 120 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall establish and maintain a database of participants in the Pathways program whose appointments are eligible for conversion to career or career-conditional appointments under paragraph (1).  (B)  Availability  The Director shall make the database established under subparagraph (A) available to each Executive agency.  (C)  Conversion eligibility reporting  (i)  In general  The head of each Executive agency shall submit to the Director such information as determined by the Director regarding each participant in the Pathways program appointed to a position within such Executive agency whose appointment is eligible for conversion to career or career-conditional appointments under paragraph (1).  (ii)  Form  The head of each Executive agency shall submit the information required under clause (i) at such time and in such manner and form as determined appropriate by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.  (D)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Office of Personnel Management for each fiscal year such funds as may be necessary to carry out this paragraph.  (i)  Subsequent appointments  (1)  In general The head of an Executive agency may, in accordance with this subsection and without regard to any provision of  chapter 33  of title 5, United States Code, (other than sections 3303 and 3328), appoint current and previous participants in the Pathways Program to positions in the competitive service. (2)  Appointment requirements  (A)  In general  In addition to the requirements under this subsection, the Director may establish requirements for appointments under paragraph (1).  (B)  Internship Program  A current or previous participant in the Internship Program described in subsection (d) may be appointed under paragraph (1) only if the participant—  (i)  is a citizen of the United States;  (ii)  has completed not less than one year as a participant in the Internship Program while enrolled as a half- or full-time degree- or certificate-seeking student at an institution or program described in subsection (d)(1);  (iii)  in the 120-day period ending on the date on which such participant is appointed under paragraph (1), has completed a course of study at an institution or program described in subsection (d)(1);  (iv)  meets the qualification standards for the position to which the participant will be appointed, including any requirements of the Executive agency in which such position is located; and  (v)  receives a favorable recommendation from an official of the Executive agency or agencies in which the participant served under the Internship Program.  (C)  Recent Graduates Program participant  A current or previous participant in the Recent Graduates Program described in subsection (e) may be appointed under paragraph (1) only if the participant—  (i)  is a citizen of the United States;  (ii)  has completed not less than one year of continuous service as a participant in the Recent Graduates Program, except that such one-year requirement shall be reduced by the amount of time, if any, the participant spent as a participant in the Internship Program described in subsection (d);  (iii)  has demonstrated successful performance of the responsibilities of each position to which the participant was assigned under the Recent Graduates Program;  (iv)  meets the qualification standards for the position to which the participant will be appointed, including any requirements of the Executive agency in which such position is located; and  (v)  receives a recommendation for such appointment from the immediate supervisor of the participant under the Recent Graduates Program.  (D)  Presidential Management Fellows Program participant  A previous participant in the Presidential Management Fellows Program described in subsection (f) may be appointed under paragraph (1) only if the participant—  (i)  is a citizen of the United States;  (ii)  successfully completed the Presidential Management Fellows Program in accordance with the standards set by the Office of Personnel Management and the relevant agency;  (iii)  for each position to which the participant was assigned under the Presidential Management Fellows Program—  (I)  if the performance of the participant for such position was assessed under the performance appraisal program of the Executive agency in which this position was located, received a rating for such performance that is not less than fully successful or an equivalent rating; and  (II)  for any other such position, demonstrated successful performance of the responsibilities of such position;  (iv)  meets the qualification standards for the position to which the participant will be appointed, including any requirements of the Executive agency in which such position is located; and  (v)  receives a recommendation for such appointment from the immediate supervisor of the participant under the Presidential Management Fellows Program.  (j)  Interaction with other law  Beginning one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, any program that may be established or operated under this section, Executive Order 13562 (75 Fed. Reg. 82583, relating to recruiting and hiring students and recent graduates), or Executive Order 13318 (68 Fed. Reg. 66317, relating to the Presidential Management Fellows Program) and any authority provided under this section and such Executive Orders, shall be deemed to be established, operated, and provided, as applicable, under this section.  (k)  Definition of Federal internship program  Section 3111a(c)(1) of title 5, United States Code, as amended by this Act, is further amended—  (1)  by redesignating subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) as subparagraphs (C), (D), and (E), respectively;  (2)  by inserting after subparagraph (A) the following:  (B)  the Internship Program established under section 8 of the Building the Next Generation of Federal Employees Act;  ;  (3) in subparagraph (D), as so redesignated, by inserting after  (75 Federal Register 82525)  the following:  or the Internship Program established under section 8 of the Building the Next Generation of Federal Employees Act ; and (4) in subparagraph (E)(i), as so redesignated, by inserting after  (75 Federal Register 82525)  the following:  or the Internship Program established under section 8 of the Building the Next Generation of Federal Employees Act .
 9.  Enhanced hiring for recent college graduates and post-secondary students  (a)  Recent graduate hiring authority Section 3115(e)(1) of title 5, United States Code, is amended by striking all that follows  exceed  and inserting  the greater of either 15 percent of the number of individuals that the agency head appointed during the previous fiscal year to permanent employment or 1 percent of the average number of permanent employees in the agency during the previous fiscal year. . (b)  Post-Secondary student hiring authority  Section 3116 of title 5, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subsection (d)(1), by striking all that follows  exceed  and inserting  the greater of either 15 percent of the number of individuals that the agency head appointed during the previous fiscal year to permanent employment or 1 percent of the average number of permanent employees in the agency during the previous fiscal year. ; and (2) in subsection (e)(2), by striking  640  and inserting  400 .
 10.  Information on use of expedited hiring authority for college graduates  (a)  In general  The head of each Executive agency shall submit to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management information on the use of the authority under section 3115 of title 5, United States Code, by such Executive agency at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director determines appropriate.  (b)  Publication  (1)  In general  Not less than once each fiscal-year quarter, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management shall publish on a database described in paragraph (2) the information received under subsection (a), including—  (A)  the number individuals appointed under section 3115 of title 5, United States Code;  (B)  the demographic information of such individuals;  (C)  the occupational series of the positions to which such individuals were appointed; and  (D)  the rates of pay for such individuals.  (2)  Existing database use  The database described in this paragraph is a publicly available online database that is publicly available online as of the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 11.  Competitive service examination credit  (a)  In general  Except as provided in section 3(e)(2)(C), in examinations for the competitive service in which experience is an element of qualification, a fellow or intern shall be entitled to 5 additional points above the earned rating of such fellow or intern if such fellow or intern completes a fellowship or internship, respectively, that—  (1)  is not less than six months in duration;  (2)  the Director of the Office of Personnel Management has approved as entitling the individuals who complete such fellowship or internship to such credit.  (b)  Credit availability  The credit under subsection (a) shall remain available for a period of 12 months beginning on the later of the date on which the fellowship or internship of the fellow or intern ends or the date on which the fellow or intern graduates from a qualifying institution, as determined by the Director of the Office of Personnel Management.  (c)  Application  A sponsoring agency or third-party internship provider seeking the approval described in subsection (a)(2) for a fellowship or internship offered by such entity shall submit to the Director of the Office of Personnel Management an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Director determines appropriate.  (d)  Regulations  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director shall issue regulations carrying out this section. 
