 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Low-Income Water Customer Assistance Programs Act of 2021 .
 2.  Low-income drinking water assistance program Part E of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300j et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following: 1459E.  Low-income drinking water assistance program  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Eligible entity The term  eligible entity  means— (A)  a community water system that is owned or operated by a municipality, other than a small community-serving water system; or  (B)  a State, with respect to a small community-serving water system located in the State.  (2)  Household The term  household  means any individual or group of individuals who are living together as 1 economic unit. (3)  Local drinking water access program The term  local drinking water access program  means a program developed or implemented by an eligible entity using a grant awarded under this section. (4)  Low-income household The term  low-income household  means a household— (A)  in which 1 or more individuals are receiving—  (i) assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ); (ii) supplemental security income payments under title XVI of the  Social Security Act  ( 42 U.S.C. 1381 et seq. ); (iii) supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits under the  Food and Nutrition Act of 2008  ( 7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq. ); or (iv)  payments under—  (I)  section 1315, 1521, 1541, or 1542 of title 38, United States Code; or  (II) section 306 of the Veterans’ and Survivors’ Pension Improvement Act of 1978 ( 38 U.S.C. 1521  note;  Public Law 95–588 ); or (B)  that has an income that—  (i)  as determined by the State in which the household is located, does not exceed the greater of—  (I)  an amount equal to 150 percent of the poverty level; and  (II)  an amount equal to 60 percent of the State median income for that State; or  (ii)  does not exceed an amount, determined by an eligible entity receiving a grant under this section, that—  (I)  is lower that the amount described in clause (i); and  (II)  is greater than or equal to 110 percent of the poverty level.  (5)  Poverty level The term  poverty level  means, with respect to a household in a State, the income described in the poverty guidelines issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to section 673 of the Community Services Block Grant Act ( 42 U.S.C. 9902 ), as applicable to the household. (6)  Small community-serving water system The term  small community-serving water system  means a community water system that provides drinking water services to a municipality with a population of fewer than 10,000 residents, at least 20 percent of whom are at or below the poverty level. (7)  State median income The term  State median income  has the meaning given that term in section 2603 of the  Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981  ( 42 U.S.C. 8622 ).  (b)  Establishment  (1)  In general  The Administrator shall establish a Federal low-income drinking water assistance program to award grants to eligible entities to develop and implement local drinking water access programs to assist low-income households in maintaining access to affordable drinking water.  (2)  Requirements for small community-serving water systems  In order for a State to be eligible to receive a grant under this section for a small community-serving water system, the State and the small community-serving water system shall enter into a memorandum of understanding, under which the State shall—  (A)  submit to the Administrator an application under paragraph (6) for the small community-serving water system; and  (B)  on receipt of a grant under this section, develop and implement a local drinking water access program for the small community-serving water system.  (3)  Limitations  A grant awarded under this subsection—  (A)  shall not be used to replace funds for any existing similar local program to assist low-income households in maintaining access to affordable drinking water; but  (B)  may be used to supplement or enhance such a local program.  (4)  Term  The term of a grant awarded under this subsection shall be one year.  (5)  Minimum local program requirements  (A)  In general  Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall develop, in consultation with relevant stakeholders, the minimum requirements for a local drinking water access program.  (B)  Inclusions  The local drinking water access program requirements developed under subparagraph (A) may include—  (i)  direct financial assistance;  (ii)  a lifeline rate;  (iii)  bill discounting;  (iv)  special hardship provisions;  (v)  a percentage-of-income payment plan;  (vi)  water efficiency assistance, including subsidizing the cost of the installation of water efficient fixtures or leak repair work that is carried out or contracted by a homeowner; or  (vii)  any other form of assistance identified by the Administrator.  (6)  Application  To receive a grant under this subsection—  (A)  an eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator an application that demonstrates that—  (i)  the proposed local drinking water access program meets the requirements developed under paragraph (5); and  (ii)  the proposed local drinking water access program will treat households that live in owner-occupied homes and households that live in rental housing equitably; and  (B)  in the case of an eligible entity described in subsection (a)(1)(A), the eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator an application that demonstrates that—  (i)  the eligible entity has—  (I)  a long-term financial plan based on an analysis of the rates the applicable community water system charges for drinking water services;  (II)  an asset management plan;  (III)  a capital improvement plan with a period of not less than 20 years;  (IV)  a fiscal management plan; or  (V)  another plan similar to the plans described in clauses (i) through (iv);  (ii)  a grant awarded under this subsection would support the efforts of the eligible entity to generate the necessary funds to achieve or maintain compliance with this Act while mitigating the cost to low-income households; and  (iii)  the eligible entity has the capacity to create and implement an effective community outreach plan to inform low-income households of the local drinking water access program and assist with enrollment.  (7)  Priority  In awarding grants under this subsection, the Administrator shall give priority to applications for local drinking water access programs with respect to which—  (A)  the owner or operator of the applicable community water system—  (i)  owns or operates a—  (I) treatment works (as defined in section 212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1292 )) for municipal waste; or (II)  a municipal separate storm sewer system (as such term is used in the Federal Water Pollution Control Act); and  (ii) is subject to a consent decree relating to compliance with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ) with respect to a treatment works or system described in clause (i); (B)  the residential customers of the applicable community water system have experienced rate or fee increases for drinking water services or wastewater services (including stormwater services) of 30 percent or more during the 3-year period ending on the date of enactment of this section; or  (C)  the eligible entity will provide matching funds in an amount equal to or greater than the amount of the grant.  (8)  Reporting requirements  (A)  In general  As a condition of receiving a grant under this subsection, an eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator, in a manner determined by the Administrator, information regarding the applicable local drinking water access program, including—  (i)  key features, including rate structures, rebates, discounts, and related initiatives that assist low-income households, including—  (I) billing methods that average rates over the course of a year, known as  budget billing ; (II)  bill timing; and  (III)  pretermination protections;  (ii)  sources of funding;  (iii)  eligibility criteria;  (iv)  participation rates by households;  (v)  the average amount of assistance provided to participating households;  (vi)  program costs;  (vii)  the demonstrable impacts of the program on arrearage and service disconnection for households, based on data from before and after the implementation of the program, to the maximum extent practicable; and  (viii)  other relevant information required by the Administrator.  (B)  Publication  The Administrator shall publish a report that compiles and summarizes the information submitted under subparagraph (A).  (9)  Assistance exempt from taxation  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, assistance provided to a low-income household under a local drinking water access program shall not be includible in the gross income of the recipient of such assistance for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.   (c)  Technical assistance  The Administrator shall provide technical assistance to each eligible entity that receives a grant under this section to ensure—  (1)  full implementation of the applicable local drinking water access program; and  (2)  maximum enrollment of low-income households in the applicable local drinking water access program, including through—  (A)  community outreach campaigns; or  (B)  coordination with local health departments to determine the eligibility of households for assistance.  (d)  Report  Not later than 2 years after the date on which grant funds are first disbursed to an eligible entity under this section, and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the Federal program established under this section. 
 . 
 3.  Low-income wastewater assistance program Title I of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1251 et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following: 124.  Low-income wastewater assistance program  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Covered facility The term  covered facility  means— (A)  a treatment works for municipal waste; or  (B)  a municipal separate storm sewer system.  (2)  Eligible entity The term  eligible entity  means— (A)  a municipality that owns or operates a covered facility, other than a small community-serving wastewater facility;  (B)  2 or more municipalities described in subparagraph (A) that have entered into a partnership agreement or a cooperative agreement; or  (C)  a State, with respect to a small community-serving wastewater facility located in the State.  (3)  Household The term  household  means any individual or group of individuals who are living together as 1 economic unit. (4)  Local wastewater services access program The term  local wastewater services access program  means a program developed or implemented by an eligible entity using a grant awarded under this section. (5)  Low-income household The term  low-income household  means a household— (A)  in which 1 or more individuals are receiving—  (i) assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ); (ii) supplemental security income payments under title XVI of the  Social Security Act  ( 42 U.S.C. 1381 et seq. ); (iii) supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits under the  Food and Nutrition Act of 2008  ( 7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq. ); or (iv)  payments under—  (I)  section 1315, 1521, 1541, or 1542 of title 38, United States Code; or  (II) section 306 of the Veterans’ and Survivors’ Pension Improvement Act of 1978 ( 38 U.S.C. 1521  note;  Public Law 95–588 ); or (B)  that has an income that—  (i)  as determined by the State in which the household is located, does not exceed the greater of—  (I)  an amount equal to 150 percent of the poverty level; and  (II)  an amount equal to 60 percent of the State median income for that State; or  (ii)  does not exceed an amount, determined by an eligible entity receiving a grant under this section, that—  (I)  is lower that the amount described in clause (i); and  (II)  is greater than or equal to 110 percent of the poverty level.  (6)  Poverty level The term  poverty level  means, with respect to a household in a State, the income described in the poverty guidelines issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to section 673 of the Community Services Block Grant Act ( 42 U.S.C. 9902 ), as applicable to the household. (7)  Small community-serving wastewater facility The term  small community-serving wastewater facility  means a covered facility that provides services to municipality with a population of fewer than 10,000 residents, at least 20 percent of whom are at or below the poverty level. (8)  State median income The term  State median income  has the meaning given that term in section 2603 of the  Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981  ( 42 U.S.C. 8622 ). (b)  Establishment  (1)  In general  The Administrator shall establish a Federal low-income wastewater assistance program to award grants to eligible entities to develop and implement local wastewater access programs to assist low-income households in maintaining access to affordable wastewater services, including municipal stormwater services.  (2)  Requirements for small community-serving wastewater facilities  In order for a State to be eligible to receive a grant under this section for a small community-serving wastewater facility, the State and the small community-serving wastewater facility shall enter into a memorandum of understanding, under which the State shall—  (A)  submit to the Administrator an application under paragraph (6) for the small community-serving wastewater facility; and  (B)  on receipt of a grant under this section, develop and implement a local wastewater access program for the small community-serving wastewater facility.  (3)  Limitations  A grant awarded under this subsection—  (A)  shall not be used to replace funds for any existing similar local program to assist low-income households in maintaining access to affordable wastewater services, including municipal stormwater services; but  (B)  may be used to supplement or enhance such a local program.  (4)  Term  The term of a grant awarded under this subsection shall be one year.  (5)  Minimum local program requirements  (A)  In general  Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall develop, in consultation with relevant stakeholders, the minimum requirements for a local wastewater access program.  (B)  Inclusions  The local wastewater access program requirements developed under subparagraph (A) may include—  (i)  direct financial assistance;  (ii)  a lifeline rate;  (iii)  bill discounting;  (iv)  special hardship provisions;  (v)  a percentage-of-income payment plan;  (vi)  water efficiency assistance, including subsidizing the cost of the installation of water efficient fixtures or leak repair work that is carried out or contracted by a homeowner; or  (vii)  any other form of assistance identified by the Administrator.  (6)  Application  To receive a grant under this subsection—  (A)  an eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator an application that demonstrates that—  (i)  the proposed local wastewater access program meets the requirements developed under paragraph (5); and  (ii)  the proposed local wastewater access program will treat households that live in owner-occupied homes and households that live in rental housing equitably; and  (B)  in the case of an eligible entity described in subsection (a)(1)(A), the eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator an application that demonstrates that—  (i)  the eligible entity has—  (I)  a long-term financial plan based on an analysis of the rates the applicable covered facility charges for services;  (II)  an asset management plan;  (III)  a capital improvement plan with a period of not less than 20 years;  (IV)  a fiscal management plan; or  (V)  another plan similar to the plans described in clauses (i) through (iv);  (ii)  a grant awarded under this subsection would support the efforts of the eligible entity to generate the necessary funds to achieve or maintain compliance with this Act while mitigating the cost to low-income households; and  (iii)  the eligible entity has the capacity to create and implement an effective community outreach plan to inform low-income households of the local wastewater access program and assist with enrollment.  (7)  Priority  In awarding grants under this subsection, the Administrator shall give priority to applications for local wastewater access programs with respect to which—  (A)  the applicable covered facility is subject to a consent decree relating to compliance with this Act;  (B)  the residential customers of the applicable covered facility have experienced rate or fee increases for drinking water services or wastewater services (including stormwater services) of 30 percent or more during the 3-year period ending on the date of enactment of this section;  (C)  the eligible entity develops an equivalent program, as determined by the Administrator, that is administered separately by the eligible entity;  (D)  matching funds will be provided in an amount equal to or greater than the amount of the grant; or  (E)  the eligible entity is described in subsection (a)(2)(B).  (8)  Reporting requirements  (A)  In general  As a condition of receiving a grant under this subsection, an eligible entity shall submit to the Administrator, in a manner determined by the Administrator, information regarding the applicable local wastewater access program, including—  (i)  key features, including rate structures, rebates, discounts, and related initiatives that assist low-income households, including—  (I) billing methods that average rates over the course of a year, known as  budget billing ; (II)  bill timing; and  (III)  pretermination protections;  (ii)  sources of funding;  (iii)  eligibility criteria;  (iv)  participation rates by households;  (v)  the average amount of assistance provided to households;  (vi)  program costs;  (vii)  the demonstrable impacts of the program on arrearage and service disconnection for households, based on data from before and after the implementation of the program, to the maximum extent practicable; and  (viii)  other relevant information required by the Administrator.  (B)  Publication  The Administrator shall publish a report that compiles and summarizes the information submitted under subparagraph (A).  (9)  Assistance exempt from taxation  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, assistance provided to a low-income household under a local wastewater access program shall not be includible in the gross income of the recipient of such assistance for purposes of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.   (c)  Technical assistance  The Administrator shall provide technical assistance to each eligible entity that receives a grant under this section to ensure—  (1)  full implementation of the applicable local wastewater access program; and  (2)  maximum enrollment of low-income households in the applicable local wastewater access program, including through—  (A)  community outreach campaigns; or  (B)  coordination with local health departments to determine the eligibility of households for assistance.  (d)  Report  Not later than 2 years after the date on which grant funds are first disbursed to an eligible entity under this section, and annually thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the Federal program established under this section. 
 . 
 4.  Needs assessment for nationwide rural and urban low-income community water assistance program  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Administrator The term  Administrator  means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. (2)  Household The term  household  means any individual or group of individuals who are living together as 1 economic unit. (3)  Low-income household The term  low-income household  means a household— (A)  in which 1 or more individuals are receiving—  (i) assistance under a State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 601 et seq. ); (ii) supplemental security income payments under title XVI of the  Social Security Act  ( 42 U.S.C. 1381 et seq. ); (iii) supplemental nutrition assistance program benefits under the  Food and Nutrition Act of 2008  ( 7 U.S.C. 2011 et seq. ); or (iv)  payments under—  (I)  section 1315, 1521, 1541, or 1542 of title 38, United States Code; or  (II) section 306 of the Veterans’ and Survivors’ Pension Improvement Act of 1978 ( 38 U.S.C. 1521  note;  Public Law 95–588 ); or (B)  that has an income that, as determined by the State in which the household is located, does not exceed the greater of—  (i)  an amount equal to 150 percent of the poverty level; and  (ii)  an amount equal to 60 percent of the State median income for that State.  (4)  Poverty level The term  poverty level  means, with respect to a household in a State, the income described in the poverty guidelines issued by the Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to section 673 of the Community Services Block Grant Act ( 42 U.S.C. 9902 ), as applicable to the household. (5)  State median income The term  State median income  has the meaning given that term in section 2603 of the  Low-Income Home Energy Assistance Act of 1981  ( 42 U.S.C. 8622 ). (b)  Study; report  (1)  In general  Not later than one year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall conduct, and submit to Congress a report describing the results of, a study regarding the prevalence throughout the United States of low-income households that do not have access to—  (A)  affordable and functional centralized or onsite wastewater services that protect the health of individuals in the households;  (B)  affordable municipal stormwater services; or  (C)  affordable public drinking water services to meet household needs.  (2)  Inclusions  The report under paragraph (1) shall include—  (A)  recommendations of the Administrator regarding the best methods to increase access to the services described in paragraph (1);  (B)  a description of the cost of each method described in subparagraph (A);  (C)  a description of all consultation with relevant stakeholders carried out in developing the report; and  (D)  a description of the results of the study with respect to low-income households that live in rental housing and do not receive bills for such services, but pay for the services indirectly through rent payments.  (3)  Agreements  The Administrator may enter into an agreement with another Federal agency to carry out the study under paragraph (1). 
