 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  United States Capitol Complex Security Improvement Act .
 2.  Investigations and assessments relating to attack on United States Capitol  (a)  Intelligence failures  (1)  Investigation  The Inspector General of the United States Capitol Police shall conduct an investigation of systemic failures of intelligence relating to the January 6, 2021 attack on the United States Capitol.  (2)  Report  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Inspector General of the United States Capitol Police shall submit a report to Congress on the investigation conduced under paragraph (1).  (b)  Establishment of intelligence-Sharing nexus  (1)  Assessment  The Chief of the United States Capitol Police shall conduct an assessment of the feasibility and desirability of establishing a nexus for sharing intelligence with other law enforcement agencies and appropriate officials of the Federal Government.  (2)  Report  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief of the United States Capitol Police shall submit a report to Congress on the assessment conduced under paragraph (1).  (c)  Use of de-Escalation strategies  (1)  Investigation  The Chief of the United States Capitol Police shall conduct an investigation into the use of de-escalation strategies by the Capitol Police during the January 6, 2021 attack on the United States Capitol.  (2)  Report  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Chief of the United States Capitol Police shall submit a report to Congress on the investigation conduced under paragraph (1).  (d)  Assessment of damages  (1)  Assessment  The Architect of the Capitol shall conduct an assessment of the damages caused by the January 6, 2021 attack on the United Stats Capitol, and shall include in the assessment a plan to respond to the damages by modernizing and increasing the security of the Capitol.  (2)  Report  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Architect of the Capitol shall submit a report to Congress on the assessment conduced under paragraph (1), together with the plan described in such paragraph. 
 3.  Initiative to improve ability of Capitol Police to respond to riots  (a)  Initiative described  The Chief of the United States Capitol Police shall carry out an initiative to improve the ability of the Capitol Police to respond to riots, including improving the ability of officers of the Capitol Police to communicate with each other during riots and obtaining necessary equipment and supplies, such as ballistic-proof glass, stronger locks for pedestrian doors, portable anti-riot gear, portable fencing, pedestrian interdiction equipment, and individual communication devices.  (b)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to the United States Capitol Police such sums as may be necessary to carry out the initiative under this section. 
 4.  Membership of Librarian of Congress of the District of Columbia on Capitol Police Board Section 1014(a)(2) of the Legislative Branch Appropriations Act, 2003 ( 2 U.S.C. 1901  note) is amended in the first sentence by striking  and the Architect of the Capitol,  and inserting  the Architect of the Capitol, and the Librarian of Congress .
 5.  Treatment of fencing around perimeter of United States Capitol  (a)  Removal of existing fencing  Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Architect of the Capitol shall remove any of the fencing installed around the perimeter of the United States Capitol during January 2021 which remains in place as of the date of the enactment of this Act.  (b)  Restrictions on future installation of fencing  After the Architect of the Capitol removes the fencing installed around the perimeter of the United States Capitol in accordance with subsection (a), the Architect may not install any fencing around the perimeter of the United States Capitol unless not fewer than 3 of the members of the Capitol Police Board approve the installation of the fencing. 
