 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Pala Band of Mission Indians Land Transfer Act of 2021 .
 2.  Transfer of land in trust for the Pala Band of Mission Indians  (a)  Transfer and administration  (1)  Transfer of lands into trust  If, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Tribe transfers title to the land referred to in subsection (b) to the United States, the Secretary, not later than 180 days after such transfer, shall take that land into trust for the benefit of the Tribe.  (2)  Administration  The land transferred under paragraph (1) shall be part of the Pala Indian Reservation and administered in accordance with the laws and regulations generally applicable to land held in trust by the United States for an Indian Tribe.  (b)  Land description The land referred to in subsection (a)(1) is the approximately 721.12 acres of land located in San Diego County, California, generally depicted as  Gregory Canyon Property Boundary  on the map titled  Pala Gregory Canyon Property Boundary and Parcels . (c)  Rules of construction  Nothing in this Act shall—  (1)  enlarge, impair, or otherwise affect any right or claim of the Tribe to any land or interest in land that is in existence before the date of the enactment of this Act;  (2)  affect any water right of the Tribe in existence before the date of the enactment of this Act; or  (3)  terminate or limit any access in any way to any right-of-way or right-of-use issued, granted, or permitted before the date of the enactment of this Act.  (d)  Restricted use of transferred lands  The Tribe may not conduct, on the land taken into trust for the Tribe pursuant to this Act, gaming activities—  (1)  as a matter of claimed inherent authority; or  (2) under any Federal law, including the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act ( 25 U.S.C. 2701  et seq.) and regulations promulgated by the Secretary or the National Indian Gaming Commission under that Act. (e)  Definitions  For the purposes of this section:  (1)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior. (2)  Tribe The term  Tribe  means the Pala Band of Mission Indians.
