 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Lead Elimination and Data Guidance Act  or the  LEAD Guidance Act .
 2. Identification of high-risk locations (a)  Development of guidance  (1)  In general  In accordance with the deadline established in subsection (b), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall develop guidance to help public water systems identify high-risk locations for purposes of focusing efforts to—  (A)  test drinking water for the concentration of lead in such drinking water; and  (B)  replace lead service lines.  (2)  Use of data  The guidance developed under paragraph (1) shall include information on how a public water system may use data from the American Community Survey conducted by the Department of Commerce and, where available, geospatial data to identify high-risk locations for the purposes described in subsection (a).  (b)  Availability of guidance  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall—  (1)  publish the guidance developed under subsection (a) in the Federal Register; and  (2)  make such guidance available on a publicly accessible website.  (c)  Report  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the appropriate committee of the Senate a report that—  (1)  includes the guidance developed under subsection (a);  (2)  describes the methodology used to develop such guidance; and  (3)  provides information about who was consulted in the development of such guidance.  (d)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  High-risk location The term  high-risk location  means an area— (A)  that is likely to have lead service lines; and  (B)  in which an environmental justice community is located.  (2)  Lead service line The term  lead service line  has the meaning given such term in section 1459B(a) of the Safe Drinking Water Act (42 U.S.C. 300j–19b(a)). (3)  Public water system The term  public water system  has the meaning given such term in section 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300f ).
