 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Saving America's Future by Educating Kids Act of 2021 .
 2.  Evidence-based curriculum on substance use disorders  (a)  In general  (1)  Development and dissemination of curriculum  The Secretary of Education, in consultation with the partners described in paragraph (2), shall develop and disseminate an evidence-based curriculum for kindergarten through grade 12 on educating students at an age-appropriate level on the dangers and harmful impacts of substances that focuses on opioids, vaping, synthetic drugs, and other related substances of misuse.  (2)  Partners  The partners described in this paragraph are the following:  (A)  The Assistant Secretary of the Substance Abuse and Mental Health Services Administration.  (B)  The Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.  (C)  The Assistant Secretary of the Administration for Children and Families.  (D)  The Commissioner of Food and Drugs.   (E)  The Director of the National Institute on Drug Abuse or a designee of the Director from the National Institute on Drug Abuse.  (F)  The Director of the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism or a designee of the Director from the National Institute on Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.   (G)  The Administrator of the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention of the Department of Justice or a designee of the Administrator from the Office of Juvenile Justice and Delinquency Prevention.  (H)  The Director of the Office of National Drug Control Policy.  (3)  Additional consultation  The Secretary of Education may also consult with State educational agencies, local educational agencies, and single State agencies during the development of the evidence-based curriculum under paragraph (1).  (4)  Review and update  The Secretary of Education, in consultation with the partners described in paragraph (2), shall review and update the evidence-based curriculum developed under paragraph (1) every 2 years.  (b)  Competitive grant program  (1)  In general  Beginning the first fiscal year following the completion of the development of the evidence-based curriculum under subsection (a)(1), the Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use, shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to State educational agencies to enable the State educational agencies to implement the evidence-based curriculum. The Secretary of Education shall award not less than 10 grants during each grant cycle.   (2)  Application  A State educational agency that desires to receive a grant under this subsection shall submit an application to the Secretary of Education at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may require.  (3)  Preference  In awarding grants under this subsection, the Secretary of Education shall give preference to States that have experienced the highest drug overdose death rates.  (4)  Subcontract A State educational agency that receives a grant under this subsection may subcontract with community coalitions that are currently, as of the date of application, a recipient of a grant under section 1032 of the Anti-Drug Abuse Act of 1988 ( 21 U.S.C. 1532 ), to implement the evidence-based curriculum, as needed. (5)  Annual report  Each State educational agency that receives a grant under this subsection shall provide an annual report to the Secretary of Education and the Assistant Secretary for Mental Health and Substance Use on the State educational agency's curriculum implementation progress and program reach, in order to monitor the quality of implementation of the evidence-based curriculum.  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Evidence-based The term  evidence-based  has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 ). (2)  Single State agency The term  single State agency  means the State agency responsible for administering the substance abuse prevention and treatment block grant under subpart II of part B of title XIX of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300x–21 et seq. ).  (3)  State educational agency The term  State educational agency  has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 ). (d)  Funding  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section such sums as may be necessary for the period of fiscal years 2022 through 2031.  
