 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Defense Community Teacher Support Act .
 2.  Loan forgiveness for teachers in military impacted communities  (a)  FFEL loans Section 428J of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1078–10 ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (b)(1)(A)—  (A) by inserting  (i)  before  in a school ; (B) by striking  locations; and  and inserting  locations; or ; and (C)  by adding at the end the following:  (ii)  in a school in a military impacted community; and  ;   (2)  in subsection (c)(3)—  (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting  or serving military impacted communities  after  education ; (B) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking  and  after the semicolon; (C) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and (D)  by adding at the end the following:  (C)  an elementary school or secondary school teacher employed in a school in a military impacted community.  ;  (3)  in subsection (g)—  (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking  (b)(1)(A)  and inserting  (b)(1)(A)(i) ; and (B)  by adding at the end the following:   (4)  Military connected teachers  In the case of an elementary school or secondary school teacher who is employed in a school in a military impacted community, is the spouse of a member of the armed forces, and is required to move as a result of the spouse's permanent change of station, the teacher may meet the 5-year teaching requirement of this section by teaching in multiple elementary schools or secondary schools in different military impacted communities.  ; and  (4) in subsection (h), by striking  Definition .— and all that follows through  the term  and inserting the following:  Definitions .—For purposes of this section: (1)  Military dependent student The term  military dependent student  means a student described in subparagraph (B) or (D)(i) of section 7003(a)(1) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7703(a)(1) ). (2)  Military impacted community The term  military impacted community , when used with respect to a school, means a school served by a local educational agency for which not less than 20 percent (as rounded to the nearest whole percent) of the students in average daily attendance in all schools served by the local educational agency during the preceding school year were military dependent students for such year. (3)  Year  The term  .  (b)  Federal Direct Loans Section 460 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1087j ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (b)(1)(A)—  (A) by inserting  (i)  before  in a school ; (B) by striking  locations; and  and inserting  locations; or ; and (C)  by adding at the end the following:  (ii)  in a school in a military impacted community; and  ;   (2)  in subsection (c)(3)—  (A) in the subsection heading, by inserting  or serving military impacted communities  after  education ; (B) in subparagraph (A)(ii), by striking  and  after the semicolon; (C) in subparagraph (B)(iii), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; and ; and (D)  by adding at the end the following:  (C)  an elementary school or secondary school teacher employed in a school in a military impacted community.  ;  (3)  in subsection (g)—  (A) in paragraph (1)(A), by striking  (b)(1)(A)  and inserting  (b)(1)(A)(i) ; and (B)  by adding at the end the following:  (4)  Military connected teachers  In the case of an elementary school or secondary school teacher who is employed in a school in a military impacted community, is the spouse of a member of the armed forces, and is required to move as a result of the spouse's permanent change of station, the teacher may meet the 5-year teaching requirement of this section by teaching in multiple elementary schools or secondary schools in different military impacted communities.  ; and  (4) in subsection (h), by striking  Definition .— and all that follows through  the term  and inserting the following:  Definitions .—For purposes of this section: (1)  Military dependent student The term  military dependent student  means a student described in subparagraph (B) or (D)(i) of section 7003(a)(1) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7703(a)(1) ). (2)  Military impacted community The term  military impacted community , when used with respect to a school, means a school served by a local educational agency for which not less than 20 percent (as rounded to the nearest whole percent) of the students in average daily attendance in all schools served by the local educational agency during the preceding school year were military dependent students for such year. (3)  Year  The term  . 
