 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Postal Service Electric Fleet Authorization Act of 2021 .
 2.  Authorization of appropriation for United States Postal Service for modernization of postal infrastructure  There is authorized to be appropriated to the United States Postal Service $8,000,000,000, to remain available until expended, for the acquisition of vehicles and the infrastructure required to operate a fleet of electric vehicles. Any amounts appropriated under this subsection shall be deposited into the Postal Service Fund established under section 2003 of title 39, United States Code. 
 3.  Electric or zero-emission vehicles for United States Postal Service fleet  (a)  In general Any next generation delivery vehicle purchased by the United States Postal Service using the funds appropriated under section 2 shall, to the greatest extent practicable, be an electric or zero-emission vehicle, and the Postal Service shall ensure that at least 75 percent of the total number of vehicles purchased using such funds shall be electric or zero-emission vehicles. In this subsection, the term  next generation delivery vehicle  means a vehicle purchased to replace a right-hand drive, long-life vehicle in use by the Postal Service. (b)  Medium and heavy-Duty vehicles  (1)  Date of enactment and 2025  Between the period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act and ending on December 31, 2024, not less than 75 percent of the total number of new medium or heavy-duty vehicles purchased by the Postal Service during such period shall be electric or zero-emission vehicles.  (2)  After 2029  Beginning on January 1, 2030, the Postal Service may not purchase any new medium or heavy-duty vehicle that is not an electric or zero-emission vehicle.  (c)  Compliance The Postal Service shall comply with  chapter 83  of title 41, United States Code, (popularly known as the Buy American Act) and any applicable Federal labor or civil rights laws— (1)  in carrying out subsections (a) and (b); and  (2)  with respect to any vehicle purchased using funds appropriated under section 2.  (d)  Charging stations  (1)  In general  Not later than January 1, 2026, the Postal Service shall provide, at each postal facility accessible to the public, not less than one electric vehicle charging station for use by the public or officers and employees of the Postal Service.  (2)  Fleet operation  The Postal Service shall ensure that adequate charging stations are available at Postal Service facilities to keep the Postal Service fleet operational.  (e)  Plan and update  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Postmaster General shall submit to the Committee on Oversight and Reform of the House of Representatives, the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate, and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate a plan to carry out this section. The Postmaster General shall submit an update and progress report on implementing such plan to such committees not less than once every two years beginning on the date the plan is submitted under the previous sentence and ending on the day that is six years after such date.  (f)  Contingent on appropriation  The requirements of subsections (a) through (e) of this section shall not apply unless the funds authorized under section 2 are appropriated. 
