 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Primary and Virtual Care Affordability Act . 
 2.  Exemption for telehealth services  (a)  In general Subparagraph (E) of  section 223(c)(2)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  December 31, 2021  and inserting  December 31, 2023 .  (b)  Certain coverage disregarded Clause (ii) of  section 223(c)(1)(B)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  December 31, 2021  and inserting  December 31, 2023 .  (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.  
 3.  High deductible health plan safe harbor for no deductible for certain primary care services provided during the COVID emergency  (a)  In general Paragraph (2) of  section 223(c)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph: (G)  Safe harbor for absence of deductible for certain primary care services provided during the COVID emergency  (i)  In general  A plan shall not fail to be treated as a high deductible health plan by reason of failing to have a deductible for primary care services provided by a qualified provider in any plan year beginning on or before December 31, 2023.  (ii)  Primary care services For purposes of clause (i), the term  primary care services  means services provided by primary care practitioners (as defined in section 1833(x)(2)(A)) of the Social Security Act.  (iii)  Qualified provider For purposes of clause (i), the term  qualified provider  means a general practitioner, family physician, general internist, obstetrician, gynecologist, pediatrician, geriatric physician, advanced practice registered nurse, or physician assistant acting in accordance with State laws. .  (b)  Effective date  The amendment made by this section shall apply to plan years beginning after December 31, 2019. 
 4.  Study and reports  (a)  Study The Comptroller General of the United States shall complete a study on the effects of the safe harbor for certain primary care services provided during the COVID emergency under  section 223(c)(2)(G)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 (as added by section 3).  (b)  Reports  (1)  Interim report  Not later than 365 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall provide a report to Congress containing an analysis of the results of the study under subsection (a). Such report shall contain—  (A)  an analysis of the effects of the safe harbor on—  (i)  whether plan sponsors opted to incorporate changes to their benefit design;  (ii)  insurance premiums;  (iii)  enrollment in high deductible health plans;  (iv)  utilization of primary care visits, telehealth visits, emergency department visits, and hospital admissions; and   (v)  the rate of employer im­ple­men­ta­tion of flexibilities in changes to benefit design; and  (B)  comparisons of patient engagement with services for those whose employer incorporated flexibilities into their benefit design and those who did not do so.  (2)  Final report  Not later than 365 days after the interim report under paragraph (1) is issued, the Comptroller General of the United States shall provide a final report to Congress containing a comprehensive analysis of the results of the study under subsection (a). Such report shall include updated findings, analyses, and comparisons described in paragraph (1).  
