
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Fairness for Federal Contractors Act of 2021 .
  2.  Prohibition on vaccination requirement for Federal contracts   (a)  In general  The head of an executive agency may not by contract, regulation regarding Federal contracting, or any other action directed specifically at Federal contractors or any Federal contract (including the termination or threatened termination of any contract) require any employee or individual under a contract or subcontract (at any tier) with the Federal Government to receive a vaccination against infection by the SARS–CoV–2 virus.  
 (b)  GAO study  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a study on the degree to which Executive Order 14042 (related to ensuring adequate COVID safety protocols for Federal contractors) and related guidance for Federal contractors issued by the Safer Federal Workforce Task Force did the following:   (1)  Disrupted or impaired performance under Federal contracts or subcontracts. 
 (2)  Disrupted or impaired the performance of any Federal agency mission that relies on support from Federal contractors or subcontractors, including any mission carried out by the Department of Defense, the Immigration and Customs Enforcement Agency, the Customs and Border Protection Agency, any other component of the Department of Homeland Security, the Bureau of Prisons, any other component of the Department of Justice, the Department of State, the Department of Veterans Affairs, the Federal Emergency Management Agency, and the Department of Health and Human Services.   (3)  Caused losses of jobs at Federal contractors or subcontractors. 
 (4)  Disrupted United States supply chains.   (5)  Reduced hiring by Federal contractors or subcontractors. 
 (6)  Increased the cost of performance under Federal contracts or subcontracts.   (7)  Disrupted or impaired the performance of Federal information technology systems supported by Federal contractors or subcontractors. 
 (8)  Disrupted or impaired transportation systems or provision of transportation services by individual providers.   (c)  Executive agency defined In this section, the term  executive agency  has the meaning given that term in section 133 of title 41, United States Code. 

