 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Water Infrastructure Modernization Act .
 2.  Purposes  The purposes of this Act are—  (1)  to upgrade and modernize drinking water systems in the United States, tackle new contaminants, and support drinking water infrastructure across America;  (2)  to support the modernization of drinking water infrastructure and management systems to maintain reliable, resilient, and affordable drinking water infrastructure and ensure the protection of public health; and  (3)  to encourage utilization of water efficient technologies to address drought and prepare for the growing strain population growth and climate change will have on already over-allocated water supplies. 
 3.  Smart water infrastructure technology for drinking water Section 1452 of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300j–12 ) is amended— (1) in subsection (m)(1), by striking  subsections (a)(2)(G) and (t)  and inserting  subsections (a)(2)(G), (t), and (u) ; and (2)  by adding at the end the following:  (u)  Smart water infrastructure technology  (1)  Grants  Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Administrator shall make direct grants to the owners or operators of community water systems for purposes of the planning, design, construction of, and operations training relating to—  (A)  smart water network technologies that—  (i)  can identify water losses from conveyance facilities in a nondestructive or nondisruptive manner, including acoustic data collection; and  (ii)  provide—  (I)  comprehensive data on pipeline integrity that document the presence of leaks or gas pockets; and  (II)  information on the extent of such leaks or gas pockets, with an emphasis on detecting weakness of, vulnerability of, or damage to pipe barrels, pipe joints, or other pipe features;  (B)  real-time sensing technologies, including the use of advanced analytics, that detect and alert operators to leakages and pipeline bursts on a real-time basis, including persistent sensor networks capable of measuring—  (i)  acoustic signals;  (ii)  pressure transient; or  (iii)  water quality;  (C)  real-time decision support that integrates sources of data about water distribution networks to deliver common operations information relying on data analytics that can improve operational decisionmaking, including nonrevenue water loss, energy optimization, and water quality improvement;  (D)  advanced metering infrastructure, including meter data analytics and ratepayer technology—  (i)  to improve end user conservation; and  (ii)  in support of disadvantaged communities;  (E)  resilient water supply projects that may provide real-time monitoring of weather patterns and impacts on water supply and flood protection reservoirs and dams that enhance operations, including—  (i)  improved water supply reliability and management;  (ii)  protection of natural resources, including fisheries; and  (iii)  temperature control; and  (F)  innovative and alternative water supply projects, including groundwater banking, that rely on real-time data acquisition to support predictive aquifer recharge through water reuse and stormwater management capabilities.  (2)  Program implementation  (A)  Selection  (i)  Application  The owner or operator of a community water system seeking a grant under paragraph (1) shall submit to the Administrator an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Administrator may require.  (ii)  Guidance  Not later than 30 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Administrator shall issue guidance to owners and operators of community water systems on how to submit an application under clause (i).  (iii)  Selection  Not later than 30 days after the date on which the owner or operator of a community water system seeking a grant under paragraph (1) submits an application under clause (i), the Administrator shall determine whether to approve or deny the application.  (iv)  Deficient applications  If the Administrator determines that an application submitted under clause (i) is deficient, the Administrator shall—  (I)  advise the applicant of the deficiency; and  (II)  provide an opportunity for the applicant to resubmit the application.  (B)  Disbursement  If the Administrator approves an application under subparagraph (A)(iii), the Administrator shall disburse grant funds not later than 60 days after the date of the determination.  (3)  Cost-share  (A)  In general  Except as provided in subparagraph (B), the non-Federal share of an activity carried out using a grant under paragraph (1) shall be 25 percent.  (B)  Exception  The Administrator may waive the cost-share requirement under subparagraph (A) if the grant recipient is or serves a disadvantaged community (as defined in subsection (d)(3)).  (4)  Compliance with Buy America  Subsection (a)(4) shall apply to grant funds under this subsection, without regard to the fiscal year limitation in subparagraph (A) of that subsection.  (5)  Report to Congress  (A)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this subsection, and not less frequently than annually thereafter, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report that—  (i)  describes the projects awarded grants under paragraph (1) during the applicable reporting period; and  (ii) includes any recommendations of the Administrator to improve the ability of grants under paragraph (1) to achieve the purposes described in section 2 of the  Water Infrastructure Modernization Act of 2021 . (B)  Initial report  The initial report required under subparagraph (A) shall include a description of the implementation of this subsection, including a description of—  (i)  the projects approved for a grant under paragraph (1);  (ii)  the projects denied a grant under paragraph (1); and  (iii)  for the projects described in clause (ii), a description of the reasons for which each project was denied a grant.  (6)  Authorization of appropriations  (A)  In general  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this subsection $25,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2023 through 2027, to remain available until expended.  (B)  Set-asides  (i)  Rural communities  Of the amounts made available under subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall use not more than 20 percent to make grants to owners and operators of community water systems that serve a population of not more than 10,000 individuals.  (ii)  Tribal communities  Of the amounts made available under subparagraph (A), the Administrator shall use not less than 10 percent to make grants to owners and operators of community water systems that serve Indian Tribes.  . 
