 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protecting Americans from the Risks of Keyless Ignition Technology Act  or the  PARK IT Act .
 2.  Rulemaking to install automatic shutoff systems and rollaway prevention technology in motor vehicles  (a)  Definitions  In this section, the following definitions apply:  (1)  Electric vehicle The term  electric vehicle — (A)  means a vehicle that does not include an engine and is powered solely by an external source of electricity, solar power, or both; and  (B)  does not include an electric hybrid vehicle that uses a chemical fuel such as gasoline or diesel fuel.  (2)  Key The term  key  has the meaning given the term in section 571.114 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations). (3)  Manufacturer The term  manufacturer  has the meaning given the term in section 30102(a) of title 49, United States Code. (4)  Motor vehicle  (A)  In general The term  motor vehicle  has the meaning given the term in section 30102(a) of title 49, United States Code. (B)  Exclusions The term  motor vehicle  does not include— (i)  a motorcycle or trailer (as those terms are defined in section 571.3 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations) (or successor regulations);  (ii)  any motor vehicle that is rated at more than 10,000 pounds gross vehicular weight; or  (iii)  for purposes of subsection (b), a battery electric vehicle.  (5)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Transportation.  (b)  Automatic shutoff systems for motor vehicles  (1)  Final rule  (A)  In general  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a final rule amending section 571.114 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations (relating to Federal Motor Vehicle Safety Standard Number 114), to require manufacturers to install in each motor vehicle equipped with a keyless ignition device and an internal combustion engine technology to automatically shut off the motor vehicle after the motor vehicle has idled for the period designated under subparagraph (B).  (B)  Period described  (i)  In general  The period referred to in subparagraph (A) is the period designated by the Secretary as necessary to prevent carbon monoxide poisoning.  (ii)  Different periods  The Secretary may designate different periods under clause (i) for different types of motor vehicles, depending on the rate at which the motor vehicle emits carbon monoxide, if—  (I)  the Secretary determines a different period is necessary for a type of motor vehicle for purposes of section 30111 of title 49, United States Code; and  (II)  requiring a different period for a type of motor vehicle is consistent with the prevention of carbon monoxide poisoning.  (2)  Deadline  The rule under paragraph (1) shall become effective not later than 2 years after the date on which the Secretary issues such rule.   (c)  Preventing motor vehicles from rolling away  (1)  Requirement  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall issue a final rule amending part 571 of title 49, Code of Federal Regulations, to require manufacturers to install technology to prevent movement of motor vehicles equipped with keyless ignition devices and automatic transmissions if—  (A)  the transmission of the motor vehicle is not in the park setting;  (B)  the motor vehicle does not exceed the speed determined by the Secretary under paragraph (2);  (C)  the seat belt of the operator of the motor vehicle is unbuckled;  (D)  the service brake of the motor vehicle is not engaged; and  (E)  the door for the operator of the motor vehicle is open.  (2)  Determination  The Secretary shall determine the maximum speed at which a motor vehicle may be safely locked in place under the conditions described in subparagraphs (A), (C), (D), and (E) of paragraph (1) to prevent vehicle rollaways.  (3)  Deadline  The rule under paragraph (1) shall become effective not later than 2 years after the date on which the Secretary issues such rule.  
