 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Food Donation Improvement Act of 2021 .
 2.  Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act The Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1791 ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (b)—  (A) in paragraph (3), by inserting  or is charged a good Samaritan reduced price  before the period at the end; (B)  by redesignating paragraphs (6) through (10) as paragraphs (7) through (11), respectively;  (C)  by inserting after paragraph (5) the following:  (6)  Good Samaritan reduced price The term  good Samaritan reduced price  means, with respect to the price of an apparently wholesome food or apparently fit grocery product, a price that is an amount not greater than the cost of handling, administering, and distributing the apparently wholesome food or apparently fit grocery product. ; and  (D)  by adding at the end the following:  (12)  Qualified direct donor The term  qualified direct donor  means a retail grocer, wholesaler, agricultural producer, restaurant, caterer, school food authority, and institution of higher education (as defined in section 102 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1002 )). ; and  (2)  in subsection (c)—  (A) in paragraphs (1) and (2), by inserting  at zero cost or at a good Samaritan reduced price  after  needy individuals  each place it appears; (B)  by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);  (C)  by inserting after paragraph (2) the following:  (3)  Direct donations to needy individuals  A qualified direct donor shall not be subject to civil or criminal liability arising from the nature, age, packaging, or condition of apparently wholesome food or an apparently fit grocery product that the qualified direct donor donates in good faith to a needy individual.  ; and  (D) in paragraph (4) (as so redesignated), by striking  and (2)  and inserting  through (3) .
 3.  Regulations Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Agriculture shall issue regulations that clarify the quality and labeling standards that food products donated under the Bill Emerson Good Samaritan Food Donation Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1791 ) must meet to be eligible for liability protection under that Act.
