 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Safeguarding Non-bank Consumer Information Act .
 2.  Application of safeguards rule to data aggregators  (a)  Application of safeguards rule Section 501 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ( 15 U.S.C. 6801 ) is amended— (1) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by inserting  and except as provided in subsection (c)  after  subsection (a) ; (2) in subsection (b), by striking  , other than the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, ; and (3)  by adding at the end the following new subsection:  (c)  Data aggregators  The Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall establish, by rule, appropriate standards for data aggregators relating to administrative, technical, and physical safeguards to protect records and information as described in paragraphs (1) through (3) of subsection (b).  .  (b)  Authority of the Bureau Title V of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ( 15 U.S.C. 6801 et seq. ) is amended— (1) in section 504(a)(1)(A), by striking  , except that the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection shall not have authority to prescribe regulations with respect to the standards under section 501 ; (2)  in section 505—  (A) in subsection (a)(8), by striking  , but not with respect to the standards under section 501  and inserting  , including data aggregators ; (B) in subsection (b)(1), by striking  , other than the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection, ; and (C) in subsection (b)(2), by striking  and (7)  and inserting  (7), and (8) ; and (3) in section 508(a), by striking  and the Federal Trade Commission  and inserting  , the Federal Trade Commission, and the Bureau of Consumer Financial Protection . (c)  Definition Section 509 of the Gramm-Leach-Bliley Act ( 15 U.S.C. 6809 ) is amended— (1) in paragraph (3)(A), by inserting before the period at the end  , and includes a data aggregator ; and  (2)  by adding at the end the following new paragraph:  (12)  Data aggregator The term  data aggregator  means a person that collects, maintains, utilizes, distributes, or gives access to individual or aggregate nonpublic personal information to another financial institution. . 
