 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Havana Syndrome Servicemember Support Act . 
 2.  Cross-functional team for emerging threat relating to anomalous health incidents  (a)  Establishment Using the authority provided under section 911(c) of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2017 ( Public Law 114–328 ;  10 U.S.C. 111  note), the Secretary of Defense shall establish a cross-functional team to address national security challenges posed by anomalous health incidents (as defined by the Secretary) and ensure that individuals affected by anomalous health incidents receive timely and comprehensive health care and treatment pursuant to title 10, United States Code, or other provisions of law administered by the Secretary, for symptoms consistent with an anomalous health incident. (b)  Duties  The duties of the cross-functional team established under subsection (a) shall be—  (1)  to assist the Secretary of Defense with addressing the challenges posed by anomalous health incidents and any other efforts regarding such incidents that the Secretary determines necessary; and  (2)  to integrate the efforts of the Department of Defense regarding anomalous health incidents with the efforts of other departments or agency of the Federal Government regarding such incidents.  (c)  Team leader  The Secretary shall select an Under Secretary of Defense to lead the cross-functional team and a senior military officer to serve as the deputy to the Under Secretary so selected.  (d)  Determination of organizational roles and responsibilities  The Secretary, in coordination with the Director of National Intelligence and acting through the cross-functional team established under subsection (a), shall determine the roles and responsibilities of the organizations and elements of the Department of Defense with respect to addressing anomalous health incidents, including the roles and responsibilities of the Office of the Secretary of Defense, the intelligence components of the Department, Defense agencies, and the Department of Defense field activities, the military departments, combatant commands, and the Joint Staff.  (e)  Briefings  (1)  Initial briefing  Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing on—  (A)  the progress of the Secretary in establishing the cross-functional team; and  (B)  the progress the team has made in—  (i)  determining the roles and responsibilities of the organizations and elements of the Department of Defense with respect the cross-functional team; and  (ii)  carrying out the duties under subsection (b).  (2)  Updates  Not later than 75 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and once every 45 days thereafter during the one-year period following such date of enactment, the Secretary shall provide to the appropriate congressional committees a briefing containing updates with respect to the efforts of the Department regarding anomalous health incidents.  (f)  Appropriate congressional committees defined In this section, the term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (1)  the congressional defense committees; and  (2)  the Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence of the House of Representatives and the Select Committee on Intelligence of the Senate. 
