 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Take Unsafe Limos Off the Road Act .
 2.  Grant program for safety of stretch limousines  (a)  In general  Chapter 311  of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 31162.  Grant program for safety of stretch limousines  (a)  In general  The Secretary of Transportation shall make a grant, in accordance with this section, to any State that has enacted and is enforcing a law that requires the impoundment or immobilization of a stretch limousine if such limousine is found to have an eligible defect upon inspection.  (b)  Eligibility  A State is eligible for a grant under this section for a fiscal year if such State has enacted and is enforcing a law described in subsection (a) on October 1 of such fiscal year.  (c)  Grants  (1)  In general  Beginning on October 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this section, the Secretary shall apportion funds appropriated to carry out this section to each State that has enacted and is enforcing a law described in subsection (a) in an amount determined by—  (A)  subtracting all amounts provided to States pursuant to paragraph (2) from $5,000,000; and  (B)  dividing the amount described in subparagraph (A) by the number of States eligible for a grant for such fiscal year.  (2)  Increase of amounts  Beginning on October 1 of the first fiscal year beginning after the date of enactment of this section, a State is eligible for an additional $50,000 if the State has enacted and is enforcing a law or regulation that requires—  (A)  any safety inspection of a stretch limousine to be conducted at a designated site controlled by the State; and  (B)  the inspection described in subparagraph (A) to be conducted by employees trained in the inspection of stretch limousines.   (d)  Uses of funds  A State receiving a grant under this section may use such funds—  (1)  for the impoundment or immobilization of a stretch limousine;  (2)  for the establishment and operating expenses of designated stretch limousine safety inspection sites; or  (3)  to train employees in the inspection of stretch limousines.   (e)  Definitions  As used in this section:  (1)  Eligible defect The term  eligible defect  means any defect that would cause a motor vehicle to fail a commercial motor vehicle safety inspection. (2)  Passenger motor vehicle The term  passenger motor vehicle  has the meaning given the term in section 32101 of title 49, United States Code.  (3)  Stretch limousine The term  stretch limousine  means a new or used passenger motor vehicle that has been modified, altered, or extended in a manner that increases the overall wheelbase of the vehicle, exceeding the original equipment manufacturer’s wheelbase dimension for the base model and year of the vehicle, in any amount sufficient to accommodate additional passengers with a seating capacity of not fewer than 9 passengers including the driver. (f)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2025. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The analysis for  chapter 311  of title 49 is amended by adding at the end the following: 31162. Grant program for safety of stretch limousines.   . 
