
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Debra Nixon Special Needs Trust Inclusion Act .
  2.  Authorization to participate in or change beneficiary under the Survivor Benefit Plan to provide coverage for certain children with special needs   (a)  Participation by person who establishes trust for special needs child after retirement  Section 1448(a)(5) of title 10, United States Code, is amended— 
 (1)  in subparagraph (A)—   (A) by striking  or  and inserting a comma; and
 (B) by inserting  , or establishes a trust described in subsection (b)(6)  before  may ; and  (2)  in subparagraph (B)— 
 (A) by striking  or  and inserting a comma; and  (B) by inserting  , or establishes a trust described in subsection (b)(6)  before the period.
 (b)  Change in election of beneficiary to trust for special needs child  Section 1450(f)(1)(A) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—   (1) in the heading, by striking  or child  and inserting  , child, or trust ;
 (2) by striking  or  and inserting a comma; and  (3) by inserting  , or a trust described in section 1448(b)(6) of this title  before the period.

 3.  Open enrollment period for changes in beneficiaries under the Survivor Benefit Plan to provide coverage for certain children with special needs 
 (a)  Election to change beneficiary  During the open enrollment period, an eligible individual may elect to change the beneficiary, previously elected by that eligible individual, of an annuity under the Survivor Benefit Plan, to provide coverage for—   (1)  a trust established for a special needs child; 
 (2)  a spouse and a trust established for a special needs child; or   (3)  a former spouse and a trust established for a special needs child. 
 (b)  Manner of making election  An election under this section shall be made in writing, signed by the eligible individual making the election, and received by the Secretary concerned before the end of the open enrollment period.   (c)  Effective date of election  An election under this section shall be effective on the first day of the first calendar month following the month in which the election is made. 
 (d)  Definitions  In this section;   (1) The term  eligible individual  means an individual who—
 (A)  is a person described in subsection (b)(6) of section 1448 of title 10, United States Code; and   (B)  before the open enrollment period, is a participant in the Survivor Benefit Plan providing coverage for a spouse or former spouse. 
 (2) The term  open enrollment period  means the one-year period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.  (3) The term  Secretary concerned  has the meaning given that term in section 101 of the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act ( 50 U.S.C. 3911 ).
 (4) The term  Survivor Benefit Plan  means the program established under subchapter II of  chapter 73  of title 10, United States Code.  (5) The term  trust established for a special needs child  means a trust described in subsection (b)(6) of section 1448 of title 10, United States Code.

