 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Promoting Advancement Through Transit Help to College Act  or the  PATH to College Act .
 2.  Increasing Access to higher education through public transit grants  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Eligible institution The term  eligible institution  means— (A)  a community college;  (B)  a historically Black college or university;  (C) a Tribal College or University (as defined in section 316 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1059c )); or  (D)  a minority-serving institution.  (2)  Eligible recipient The term  eligible recipient  means a public transit provider in partnership with one or more eligible institutions. (3)  Historically Black college or university The term  historically Black college and university  has the meaning given the term  part B institution  in section 322 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1061 ). (4)  Minority-serving institution The term  minority-serving institution  means an eligible institution under section 371 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1067q ). (5)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Transportation. (b)  In general  The Secretary may make grants under this section to eligible recipients to enable those eligible recipients to carry out projects described in subsection (c) to better connect students with transportation to eligible institutions.  (c)  Eligible projects  An eligible recipient receiving a grant under this section shall use grant funds to carry out one or more of the following activities to better connect students with transportation to one or more of the eligible institutions that are part of the eligible recipient partnership:   (1)  Adding bus, rail, or paratransit stops at or within walking distances of campuses.  (2)  Adding bus, rail, or paratransit routes to and from campuses from surrounding areas and other cities.  (3)  Increasing the frequency of service or adjusting the time of bus, rail, or paratransit routes to allow students to get to and from their classes.  (4)  Subsidizing bus, rail, or paratransit costs for students.  (d)  Application  (1)  In General  An eligible recipient that desires a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including information on the extent to which the proposed projects using grant funds will improve the availability of transit access for students.  (2)  Priority  In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to an eligible recipient whose partnership includes an eligible institution with respect to which more than 25 percent of students enrolled in that eligible institution receive a Federal Pell Grant.   (e)  Federal share  (1)  Capital project  The Federal share of the net project cost of a capital project carried out using a grant under this section shall be not more than 80 percent.   (2)  Operating costs  The Federal share of net operating costs for a project carried out using a grant under this section shall be not more than 50 percent. 
