
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Making Essential Drugs in America Act  or the  MEDS in America Act . 
  2.  American Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing Worker Training Centers of Excellence   (a)  In general The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Commissioner of Food and Drugs, shall establish a competitive grant program under which the Secretary will award not more than 20 grants to eligible institutions to establish centers of excellence with respect to recruitment and training of biopharmaceutical manufacturing workers in the United States, to be known as  American Biopharmaceutical Manufacturing Worker Training Centers of Excellence  (referred to in this section as  Centers of Excellence ).
 (b)  Grants 
 (1)  Amount  The amount of a grant under subsection (a) shall not exceed $1,000,000 per year.   (2)  Duration  The term of a grant under this section shall not exceed 5 years. 
 (3)  Application  An eligible institution seeking a grant under this section shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time and in such manner as the Secretary may require that contains—   (A)  an outline of the institution’s plans to recruit and train workers who would be proficient in United States biopharmaceutical manufacturing, including continuous manufacturing, vaccine manufacturing, and working as sterile operators; and 
 (B)  such other information as the Secretary may require.   (c)  Eligible institution defined In this section, the term  eligible institution  means an institution of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001 ), or an entity that carries out an apprenticeship registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the  National Apprenticeship Act ; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663;  29 U.S.C. 50 et seq. ), which has an established memorandum of understanding with one or more biopharmaceutical manufacturers.
 (d)  Technical assistance  The Secretary may provide technical assistance to an eligible institution seeking to establish a Center of Excellence, including technical assistance provided through an advisory committee of the Food and Drug Administration.    (e)  Report  Not later than 2 years after the date on which the first grant is awarded under this section, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to Congress a report that— 
 (1)  assesses the effectiveness of the program established under this section; and   (2)  makes recommendations with respect to additional measures that may be needed to support worker training for biopharmaceutical manufacturing jobs in the United States.  
 (f)  Authorization of appropriations 
 (1)  In general  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for the period of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.   (2)  Reservation of funds for historically black colleges and universities and other minority-serving institutions Of the amounts made available under paragraph (1) for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall reserve not less than 20 percent for grants to institutions that are institutions of higher education eligible to receive funds under section 371(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1067q(a) ).

