 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Deploying Infrastructure with Greater Internet Transactions And Legacy Applications Act  or the  DIGITAL Applications Act . 
 2. Establishment of an online portal for Form  299  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Appropriate committees of congress The term  appropriate committees of Congress  means— (A)  the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives;  (B)  the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives;  (C)  the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and  (D)  the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate.  (2)  Assistant secretary The term  Assistant Secretary  means the Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information. (3)  Department concerned The term  Department concerned  means the Department of the Interior or the Department of Agriculture. (4) Form  299 The term  Form 299  means the form established under section 6409(b)(2)(A) of the Middle Class Tax Relief and Job Creation Act of 2012 ( 47 U.S.C. 1455(b)(2)(A) ) or any successor form. (5)  Secretary concerned The term  Secretary concerned  means— (A)  the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to land administered by such Secretary; and  (B)  the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to National Forest System land.  (b)  Establishment of online portal  (1)  Establishment  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary concerned shall establish an online portal for the acceptance, processing, and disposal of a Form 299.  (2)  Notification  Not later than 3 business days after the date on which the online portal has been established pursuant to paragraph (1), the Secretary concerned shall notify the Assistant Secretary of such establishment.  (c)  Availability of online portal  The Assistant Secretary shall publish on the website of the National Telecommunications and Information Administration a link to each online portal established pursuant to subsection (b)(1). 
