
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Springfield Race Riot National Historic Monument Act .
  2.  Definitions  In this Act: 
 (1)  Historic Monument The term  Historic Monument  means the Springfield Race Riot National Historic Monument established by section 3.  (2)  Map The term  Map  means the map entitled  Springfield Race Riot National Memorial Proposed Boundary , numbered 687/148588 and dated October 2018.
 (3)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Director of the National Park Service.
  3.  Establishment of Springfield Race Riot National Historic Monument   (a)  Establishment   (1)  In general  Subject to paragraph (2), there is established the Springfield Race Riot National Historic Monument in the State of Illinois as a unit of the National Park System, to preserve, protect, and interpret for the benefit of present and future generations, resources associated with the Springfield Race Riot of 1908 and its role in the formation of the National Association for the Advancement of Colored People. 
 (2)  Conditions  The Historic Monument shall not be established until the date on which the Secretary acquires sufficient land within the boundary of the Historic Monument to constitute a manageable unit.   (b)  Boundaries  The boundaries of the Historic Monument shall be the boundaries generally depicted on the Map. 
 (c)  Availability of map  The Map shall be on file and available for public inspection in the appropriate offices of the National Park Service.   (d)  Acquisition of authority  The Secretary may acquire any land or interest in land located within the boundary of the Historic Monument by— 
 (1)  donation;   (2)  purchase with donated funds or appropriated funds; or 
 (3)  exchange.   (e)  Agreements  The Secretary may enter into agreements with— 
 (1)  the city of Springfield, Illinois, for the purpose of establishing and operating outside of the Historic Monument boundary facilities for administration and visitor services; and   (2)  other public or private entities for the purposes of carrying out this Act. 
 (f)  Administration 
 (1)  In general  The Secretary shall administer the Historic Monument in accordance with—   (A)  this Act; and 
 (B)  the laws generally applicable to units of the National Park System.   (2)  Management plan   (A)  Deadline for completion  Not later than 3 years after the date on which funds are first made available to the Secretary for this purpose, the Secretary shall prepare a general management plan for the Historic Monument in accordance with section 100502 of title 54, United States Code. 
 (B)  Submission to Congress  On completion of the general management plan under subparagraph (A), the Secretary shall submit it to the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate. 
 