 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Sergeant First Class Javier J. Gutierrez Purple Heart Survivor Naturalization Fee Relief Act of 2021 .
 2.  Exemption of fees for certain immediate relatives of an individual who received the Purple Heart  (a)  In general  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall include on a certain application or petition an opportunity for certain immediate relatives of an individual who was awarded the Purple Heart to identify themselves as such an immediate relative.   (b)  Fee exemption  The Secretary shall exempt certain immediate relatives of an individual who was awarded the Purple Heart, who identifies as such an immediate relative on a certain application or petition, from a fee with respect to a certain application or petition and any associated fee for biometrics.   (c)  Pending applications and petitions  The Secretary of Homeland Security may waive fees for a certain application or petition and any associated fee for biometrics for certain immediate relatives of an individual who was awarded the Purple Heart, if such application or petition is submitted not more than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.   (d)  Definition  In this section:  (1)  Active service The term  active service  has the meaning given such term in section 101(d) of title 10, United States Code.  (2)  Certain immediate relatives of an individual who was awarded the Purple Heart The term  certain immediate relatives of an individual who was awarded the Purple Heart  means an immediate relative of a living or deceased member of the Armed Forces who was awarded the Purple Heart and who is not a person ineligible for military honors pursuant to section 985(a) of title 10, United States Code.  (3)  Certain application or petition The term  certain application or petition  means— (A)  an application using Form–400, Application for Naturalization (or any successor form); or  (B)  a petition using Form I–360, Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant (or any successor form).   (4)  Immediate relative The term  immediate relative  has the meaning given such term in section 201(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1151(b) ). 
