 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  National Strategy for the Global Information Domain Act .
 2.  Federal Interagency Working Group on the Global Information Domain  (a)  Establishment There is established in the Executive Office of the President a working group to be known as the Federal Interagency Working Group on the Global Information Domain (in this section referred to as the  Working Group ). (b)  Membership  (1)  In general  The Working Group shall be composed of no less than six members appointed by the President and chosen from among the following:  (A) Members of the National Security Council described or designated by the President under section 101(c)(1) of the National Security Act of 1950 ( 50 U.S.C. 3021(c)(1) ). (B) Any officer described in section 101(c)(2) of the National Security Act of 1950 ( 50 U.S.C. 3021(c)(2) ). (C) Any position identified as a  member  or  regular attendee  of the National Security Council in a presidential directive establishing the structure and function of the National Security Council. (2)  Designates  Members of the Working Group, acting in their official capacity, may designate employees with authority to act on their behalf.  (3)  Chairperson  The Chairperson of the Working Group shall be appointed by the President.  (c)  Director; staff  (1)  Director  The Working Group shall have a Director who shall be appointed by the Chairperson.   (2)  Staff  The Director may appoint and fix the pay of additional personnel as the Director considers appropriate.  (3)  Duties  The duties of the Director and staff shall be to achieve the goals and carry out the duties of the Working Group.  (d)  National strategy for the Global Information Domain  (1)  Development of national strategy  The primary goal of the Working Group is to develop a national strategy for the global information domain which shall include, at a minimum the following:  (A)  A prioritization of the global information domain as an arena for international competition vital to the national security of the United States.  (B)  A description of how adversarial state and non-state actors are attempting to define and control the global information domain in order to achieve the goals of shaping global opinion and achieving strategic advantage.  (C)  A description of the critical role of artificial intelligence-enabled malign information in the efforts of adversarial state and non-state actors to achieve the goals described in subparagraph (B).  (D)  An identification of and prioritization of actions to defend, counter, and compete against malign information operations as a national security threat.  (E)  As necessary, recommendations for any update to critical infrastructure designations identified by Presidential Policy Directive 21 and a recommendation for the relevant departments and agencies to update sector-specific plans to reflect emerging technologies.  (F)  A recommendation for organizational structures for national security agencies to counter and compete against the threat.  (2)  Classified annex  The National Strategy required by paragraph (1) may include a classified annex.  (3)  Deadline  Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the President shall transmit to Congress the national strategy required by paragraph (1).  (e)  Sunset  The Working Group shall terminate not later than 3 months after the date on which the national strategy is transmitted pursuant to subsection (d)(1).  (f)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Critical infrastructure The term  critical infrastructure  has the meaning given that term in section 1016(e) of the Critical Infrastructures Protection Act of 2001 ( 42 U.S.C. 5195c(e) ).  (2)  Global information domain The term  global information domain  means a sphere of strategic competition in which state and non-state actors create, obtain, fuse, analyze, distort, transfer, exchange, or disseminate information, overtly or covertly, to influence public opinion for national security, geopolitical, or economic purposes. (3)  National security agency The term  national security agency  has the meaning given that term in section 681 of the  Communications Satellite Act of 1962  ( 47 U.S.C. 769(a) ).
