 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Feeding Hungry Students in Schools Act of 2021 .
 2.  Food donation by schools through charitable organization officials Section 9(l) of the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1758(l) ) is amended— (1)  in paragraph (1)—  (A) by striking  school and local educational agency  and inserting  school food authority ;  (B) by inserting  , including from a fundraiser or charitable food drive, or  after  any food ; (C) by striking  or charitable organizations  and inserting  , charitable organizations, or individuals in need, as determined by such school food authority ;  (D) by striking  general.— Each and inserting the following: general.—  (A)  Food donations permissible  Each  ; and  (E)  by adding at the end the following:  (B)  Donations through charitable organization officials  (i)  In general  Each school participating in the school lunch program under this Act may donate the food described in subparagraph (A) to a charitable organization through a charitable organization official who is directly affiliated with the school food authority serving such school.  (ii)  Annual food safety training  A charitable organization official may not receive donated food pursuant to this subparagraph unless such charitable organization official has received a food safety certification, or other applicable certification, from the State health department or other responsible authority in the State such food is donated in.  (C)  Use of school campus  The food donated by a school pursuant to this paragraph may be received, stored, and distributed on the campus of such school.  (D)  Charitable organization official defined In this paragraph, the term  charitable organization official  means a person who has a memorandum of understanding with a charitable organization to receive food donations on behalf of such organization. ;   (2)  in paragraph (2)—  (A)  in subparagraph (A)—  (i) by striking  to schools and local educational agencies  and inserting  to school food authorities ; and (ii) by striking  such schools and local educational agencies  and inserting  such school food authorities ; and (B) in subparagraph (B), by inserting  , including guidance with respect to donations through charitable organization officials under paragraph (1)(B).  after  necessary ; and (3) in paragraph (3), by striking  school and local educational agency  and inserting  school food authority . 
