
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  COVID–19 Home Safety Act of 2021 .
  2.  Report   (a) COVID- 19  report required Not later than 3 months after the date of the enactment of this section and every 3 months thereafter for the duration of the COVID–19 public health emergency, the Consumer Product Safety Commission shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate, and make publicly available, a report on the effect of the COVID–19 public health emergency on injuries and deaths from consumer products. 
 (b)  Contents of report  The report shall include the following:   (1)  Relevant data and statistics from— 
 (A)  the data sources of the Commission;   (B)  other appropriate agencies; 
 (C)  media reports;   (D)  poison control centers, to the extent practical; and 
 (E)  any other relevant data sources.   (2)  An identification of trends in injuries and deaths from consumer products, comparing data from representative time periods before and during the COVID–19 public health emergency. 
 (3)  An identification of subpopulations that have experienced elevated risk of injury or death from consumer products during the COVID–19 public health emergency, such as minorities, infants, people with disabilities, children, or the elderly.   (4)  An identification of where most injuries or deaths from consumer products during the COVID–19 public health emergency are taking place, such as the type of building or outdoor environment. 
 (5)  A specification about whether consumer products associated with a substantial number of injuries or deaths during the COVID–19 public health emergency are—   (A)  under recall; 
 (B)  subject to a voluntary consumer product safety standard; or   (C)  subject to a mandatory consumer product safety standard. 
 (6)  An identification of emerging consumer products that are posing new risks to consumers.   (c)  COVID–19 public health emergency defined The term  COVID–19 public health emergency  means a public health emergency declared pursuant to section 319 of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 247d ) as a result of confirmed cases of 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID–19), including any renewal thereof.

