
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Community Protection in Sports Act of 2021 .
  2.  Findings  The Congress finds the following: 
 (1)  Events put on by organized professional major league baseball leagues outside of the regular season of competition provide unique economic benefits to local economies.   (2)  Localities must spend money in preparation for special events that bring in thousands of visitors from across the country and the world. 
 (3)  The cancellation or relocation of such events without good cause results in a significant loss of revenue for local businesses that would have otherwise benefited from hosting an event. 
  3.  Unlawful conduct  It shall be unlawful for a league of organized professional major league baseball teams, or a member of such league, to cancel or relocate a team competition composed of 2 or more organized professional major league baseball teams if such competition is not part of the regular season competition schedule of such league and if the cancellation or relocations of such competition is not a reasonable response to— 
 (1)  a pandemic,   (2)  a natural disaster, 
 (3)  inclement weather, or   (4)  an emergency declared by the Federal Government or by the State in which such competition is scheduled to occur before the applicable cancellation or relocation. 

 4.  Private right of action; civil action 
 (a)  Liability  A league of organized professional major league baseball teams, a member of such league, or both that cancel or relocate a team competition in violation of section 3 shall be liable to the locality injured by such violation.   (b)   Civil action  A locality that is injured by a violation of section 3 may commence a civil action for damages in an appropriate district court of the United States, or in a State court of competent jurisdiction, within 4 years after the cause of action accrues. 

 5.  Definitions  For purposes of this Act:   (1)  Locality The term  locality  means a county, parish, city, town, township, village, or other general purpose political subdivision of a State with the power to levy taxes and to expend Federal, State, and local funds and exercise governmental powers.
 (2)  State  The term ‘‘State’’ means a State, the District of Columbia, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and any other territory or possession of the United States. 
  6.  Effective date  This Act shall take effect January 1, 2021.  

