 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protecting the Health of America’s Older Adults Act .
 2.  Healthy Aging Program  (a)  In general The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall establish a program for the purpose of promoting the health and wellbeing of older adults to be known as the Healthy Aging Program (referred to in this section as the  Program ) by— (1)  improving the coordination of public health interventions that promote the health and wellbeing of older adults;  (2)  disseminating and implementing evidence-based best practices and programs with respect to promoting the health and wellbeing of older adults; and  (3)  coordinating multisectoral efforts to promote the health and wellbeing of older adults across governmental and nongovernmental health and related agencies.  (b)  Activities  For the purpose described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall design and implement the Program to carry out the following activities:  (1)  Regularly conduct assessments of the health-related needs of older adults and promote policies addressing those needs through evidence-based public health interventions to promote overall health and wellbeing among older adults and reduce health care and long-term care costs, and report to the Secretary the results of those assessments.  (2)  Identify health outcome disparities in older adults, including differences by race, ethnicity, socioeconomic status, disability status, or geography.  (3)  Identify gaps in existing public health programs and policies that focus on older adults.  (4)  Promote public health partnerships with aging and other sector stakeholders to ensure nonduplication of efforts and increase efficiency by working collaboratively across sectors.  (5)  Work with multisectoral agencies to improve emergency preparedness plans and activities for older adults at increased risk during disasters, including older adults with disabilities.  (6)  Coordinate efforts to promote the health of older adults with the Administration for Community Living, other Federal departments and agencies, and nonprofit organizations.  (7)  Identify resources and evidence-based programs available to local and State health departments, including resources and programs that could be coordinated across sectors, to address the health and wellbeing of older adults.  (c)  Grants to health departments and nonprofit community-Based organizations  The Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall award grants or cooperative agreements to eligible health departments, and to nonprofit community-based organizations, to carry out any of the following activities:  (1)  Improving availability of data on the older adult population, including through data-sharing with State units on aging.  (2)  Linking the health care sector with the community services sector (including aging services and supports and disability services and supports) to coordinate and promote community-based prevention and management services.  (3)  Ensuring that State and local emergency preparedness plans and activities address the special needs of older adults, particularly the most vulnerable populations.  (4)  Training State and local public health personnel to implement or adapt evidence-based and innovative health promotion and disease prevention programs and policies.  (5)  Improving community conditions and addressing social determinants to promote health and wellbeing and foster independence among older adults, such as efforts to advance age-friendly communities and dementia-friendly communities.  (d)  Technical assistance  The Secretary shall (directly or through grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts) provide technical assistance to eligible health departments, and to nonprofit community-based organizations, in carrying out activities described in subsection (c).  (e)  Evaluations  The Secretary shall (directly or through grants, cooperative agreements, or contracts) provide for the evaluation of activities carried out under subsections (a), (b), and (c) in order to determine the extent to which such activities have been effective in carrying out the purpose described in subsection (a), including the effects of such activities on addressing health disparities.  (f)  Reports to Congress  Beginning three years after the date of enactment, and at least once every 3 years thereafter, the Secretary, acting through the Director of the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, shall submit to Congress a report that contains the results of the assessments conducted pursuant to subsection (b)(1).   (g)  Definition In this section, the term  eligible health department  means a health department of a State, the District of Columbia, a territory of the United States, a Tribe (as defined in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ( 25 U.S.C. 5304 )), or a local or municipal government. (h)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2023 through 2027 to carry out this section, including for grants under subsection (c), to remain available until September 30, 2027. 
