 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Military Perimeter Transparency Act . 
 2.  Department of Defense monitoring of real property ownership and occupancy in vicinity of military installations to identify foreign adversary ownership or occupancy  Section 2661 of title 10, United States Code, is amended—  (1)  by redesignating subsection (d) as subsection (e); and  (2)  by inserting after subsection (c) the following new subsection (d):  (d)  Identification of foreign adversary ownership or occupancy of real property in vicinity of military installations  (1)  The Secretary of Defense and each Secretary of a military department shall monitor real property ownership and occupancy in the vicinity of military installations under the jurisdiction of the Secretary concerned inside and outside of the United States to identify instances in which a foreign adversary owns or occupies, or the Secretary concerned determines a foreign adversary is seeking to own or occupy, real property in the vicinity of a military installation.  (2)  Not later than March 1 each year, the Secretary of Defense, in coordination with the Secretaries of the military departments, shall submit to the Committees on Armed Services of the Senate and the House of Representatives a report containing the following:  (A)  A description of all real property in the vicinity of military installations that the Secretary concerned—  (i)  has identified under paragraph (1) as owned or occupied by a foreign adversary; or  (ii)  has determined under paragraph (1) that a foreign adversary is seeking to own or occupy.  (B)  Changes in foreign adversary ownership or occupancy of real property in the vicinity of military installations since the previous report.  (C)  Recommendations regarding the appropriate response to such foreign adversary ownership or occupancy of real property in the vicinity of military installations.  (3)  A report under paragraph (2) shall be submitted in unclassified form, but may contain a classified annex as necessary.  (4)  In this section:  (A) The term  foreign adversary  has the meaning given that term in section 8(c)(2) of the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act of 2019 ( 47 U.S.C. 1607(c)(2) ). The term includes agents of, and partnerships and corporations including, a foreign adversary.  (B) The term  military installation  does not include a contingency overseas military location described in section 2687a(a)(3)(A)(iii) of this title. (C) The term  vicinity , with respect to proximity to a military installation, means— (i)  real property adjacent to the boundary of a military installation; and  (ii)  real property any part of which is located within 10 miles of the boundary of a military installation.  . 
