 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Securing Helium for Science Act .
 2.  Sale of crude helium  (a)  In general Section 6 of the Helium Act ( 50 U.S.C. 167d ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (d)—  (A)  in paragraph (3), by striking  (e)  and inserting  (f) ; (B) in paragraph (4), by striking  (e)  and inserting  (f) ; and (C)  by adding at the end the following:  (5)  Responsibilities of purchaser  The Secretary may not sell the Federal Helium Reserve unless the purchaser agrees to be subject to the same requirements as the Secretary under subsection (e), except that such requirements shall not terminate until the end of the 8-year period described in subsection (e)(1).  ;  (2)  by redesignating subsections (e) and (f) as subsections (f) and (g), respectively; and  (3)  by inserting the following after subsection (d):  (e)  Phase E: Continued access for researchers  (1)  In general  Except as provided in paragraph (3), during the 8-year period beginning on the earlier of September 30, 2022, or the date on which the Secretary ends sales of helium under subsection (c), the Secretary shall offer crude helium for sale to holders of a Federal research grant in quantities not to exceed 30 million cubic feet of crude helium annually, at such times and under such terms and conditions as the Secretary determines appropriate.  (2)  Price  (A)  First year  During the 1-year period beginning on the date of the first sale of helium under paragraph (1), the price of helium sold under such paragraph shall be 5 percent higher than the price of the most recent sale of helium under subsection (c).  (B)  Subsequent years  The Secretary shall increase the price of helium offered under this paragraph by 5 percent in each subsequent year in which sales occur under this subsection.  (3)  Termination  The requirements of this subsection shall not apply to the Secretary beginning on the date that a purchaser of the Federal Helium Reserve that has agreed to be subject to the requirements of this subsection assumes control of such Federal Helium Reserve.  .  (b)  Conforming amendment Section 3(c) of the Helium Act ( 50 U.S.C. 167a(c) ) is amended by striking  6(e)  and inserting  6(f) . 
