 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Countering Chinese Communist Party Malign Influence Act .
 2.  Authorization  (a)  Countering Chinese influence fund  There is authorized to be appropriated $300,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2025 for the Countering Chinese Influence Fund to counter the malign influence of the Chinese Communist Party globally. Amounts appropriated pursuant to this authorization are authorized to remain available until expended and shall supplement, not supplant, amounts otherwise authorized to be appropriated to counter such influence.  (b)  Consultation required  Amounts appropriated or otherwise made available to counter the malign influence of the Chinese Communist Party globally, including pursuant to the authorization under subsection (a) or before the date of the enactment of this Act, shall be subject to prior consultation with, and the regular notification procedures of—  (1)  the Committee on Foreign Affairs and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives; and  (2)  the Committee on Foreign Relations and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate.  (c)  Policy Guidance, Coordination, and Approval  (1)  Coordinator  The Secretary of State shall designate a senior official of the Department at the rank of Assistant Secretary or above to provide policy guidance, coordination, and approval for the obligation of funds authorized pursuant to subsection (a).  (2)  Duties  The senior official designated pursuant to paragraph (1) shall be responsible for the coordination and approval of all programming conducted using the funds authorized to be appropriated by subsection (a), based on a determination that such programming counters the malign influence and activities of the Chinese Communist Party pursuant to the strategic objectives of the United States, as established in the 2017 National Security Strategy, the 2018 National Defense Strategy, and other relevant national and regional strategies as appropriate.  (3)  Interagency coordination  The senior official designated pursuant to paragraph (1) shall, in coordinating and approving programming pursuant to paragraph (2), seek to—  (A)  conduct appropriate interagency consultation; and  (B)  ensure, to the maximum extent practicable, that all approved programming functions in concert with other Federal activities to counter the malign influence and activities of the Chinese Communist Party.  (4)  Assistant coordinator  The Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall designate a senior official at the rank of Assistant Administrator or above to assist and consult the senior official designated pursuant to paragraph (1).  (d)  Malign influence In this section, the term  malign influence  with respect to the Chinese Communist Party should be construed to include acts conducted by the Chinese Communist Party or entities acting on its behalf that— (1)  undermine a free and open international order;  (2)  advance an alternative, repressive international order that bolsters the Chinese Communist Party’s hegemonic ambitions and is characterized by coercion and dependency;  (3)  undermine the national security or sovereignty of the United States or other countries; or  (4)  undermine the economic security of the United States or other countries, including by promoting corruption. 
