
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Fair Debt Collection Practices for Servicemembers Act .
  2.  Enhanced protection against debt collector harassment of servicemembers   (a)  Communication in connection with debt collection Section 805 of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act ( 15 U.S.C. 1692c ) is amended by adding at the end the following:

 (e)  Communications concerning servicemember debts 
 (1)  Definition In this subsection, the term  covered member  means—  (A)  a covered member or a dependent as defined in section 987(i) of title 10, United States Code; and 
 (B) 
 (i)  an individual who was separated, discharged, or released from duty described in such section 987(i)(1), but only during the 365-day period beginning on the date of separation, discharge, or release; or   (ii)  a person, with respect to an individual described in clause (i), described in subparagraph (A), (D), (E), or (I) of section 1072(2) of title 10, United States Code. 
 (2)  Prohibitions  A debt collector may not, in connection with the collection of any debt of a covered member—   (A)  threaten to have the covered member reduced in rank; 
 (B)  threaten to have the covered member’s security clearance revoked; or   (C) threaten to have the covered member prosecuted under  chapter 47  of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice). . 
 (b)  Unfair practices Section 808 of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act ( 15 U.S.C. 1692f ) is amended by adding at the end the following:   (9)  The representation to any covered member (as defined under section 805(e)(1)) that failure to cooperate with a debt collector will result in— 
 (A)  a reduction in rank of the covered member;   (B)  a revocation of the covered member’s security clearance; or 
 (C) prosecution under  chapter 47  of title 10, United States Code (the Uniform Code of Military Justice). . 
  3.  GAO study  The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study and submit a report to Congress on the impact of this Act on— 
 (1)  the timely delivery of information to a covered member (as defined in section 805(e) of the Fair Debt Collection Practices Act, as added by this Act);   (2)  military readiness; and 
 (3)  national security, including the extent to which covered members with security clearances would be impacted by uncollected debt. 
  4.  Determination of budgetary effects The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled  Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation  for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.

