 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  FEMA Improvement, Reform, and Efficiency Act of 2021  or the  FIRE Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Definitions  In this Act—  (1) the term  Administrator  means the Administrator of the Agency; (2) the term  Agency  means the Federal Emergency Management Agency; (3) the term  emergency  means an emergency declared or determined to exist by the President under section 501 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5191 ); (4) the terms  Indian tribal government ,  local government , and  State  have the meanings given such terms in section 102 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5122 ); and (5) the term  major disaster  means a major disaster declared by the President under section 401 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5170 ).
 3.  Authority for relocation projects  (a)  Eligibility for assistance An eligible applicant seeking public mitigation assistance under section 406 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5172 ) or section 1366 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 ( 42 U.S.C. 4104c ) may be eligible to receive such assistance for the relocation of an eligible structure if the entity— (1)  demonstrates that—  (A)  the structure is at risk from future damage, based on the most recently conducted hazard map or State or local expert risk assessment, regardless of whether the risk is of repetitive or heavy damage;  (B)  the overall relocation project reduces the risk to the structure and is cost effective; and  (C)  the overall relocation project does not increase risk to adjacent structures;  (2)  complies with all other eligibility requirements for relocation projects; and  (3)  complies with Federal requirements for the project.  (b)  Applicability  Subsection (a) shall apply to a major disaster declared by the President on or after the date of enactment of this Act. 
 4.  Red flag warnings and predisaster actions  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator, in coordination with the National Weather Service of the National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, shall—  (1)  conduct a study of, develop recommendations for, and initiate a process for the use of Red Flag Warnings and similar weather alert and notification methods, including the use of emerging technologies, to establish—  (A)  plans and actions, consistent with law, that can be implemented prior to a wildfire event, including pre-impact disaster declarations and surge operations, that can limit the impact, duration, or severity of the fire; and  (B)  mechanisms to increase interagency collaboration to expedite the delivery of disaster assistance; and  (2)  submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a comprehensive report regarding the study described in paragraph (1), including any recommendations of the Administrator, and the activities of the Administrator to carry out paragraph (1). 
 5.  Assistance for wildfire damage  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate regarding—  (1)  the application for assistance and consistency of assistance provided by the Agency in response to wildfires; and  (2)  the kinds of damage that result from wildfires. 
 6.  GAO report on gaps  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General of the United States shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that examines—  (1)  gaps in the policies of the Agency related to wildfires, when compared to other hazards;  (2)  disparities in regulations and guidance issued by the Administrator, including any oversight of the programs of the Agency, when addressing impacts of wildfires and other hazards;  (3)  ways to shorten the period of time between the initiating of and the distribution of assistance, reimbursements, and grants;  (4)  the effectiveness of the programs of the Agency in addressing wildfire hazards;  (5)  ways to improve the ability of the Agency to assist States, local governments, and Indian tribal governments to prepare for, respond to, recover from, and mitigate against wildfire hazards;  (6)  revising the application process for assistance relating to wildfires to more effectively assess uninsured and underinsured losses and serious needs; and  (7) with respect to the community development block grant disaster recovery and mitigation programs authorized under title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 ( 42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq. )— (A)  establishing clear triggers for the appropriation of funds related to those programs based on the declaration of a major disaster that reaches identified thresholds; and  (B) amending title I of the Housing and Community Development Act of 1974 ( 42 U.S.C. 5301 et seq. ) to permanently establish the requirements for those programs and allow for the development of pre-disaster action plans.
 7.  Crisis counseling cultural competency Section 416 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5183 ) is amended— (1) by striking  The President  and inserting the following: (a)  In general  The President  ; and  (2)  by adding at the end the following:  (b)  Cultural competency  The President shall, in consultation with affected States, local governments, and Indian tribal governments and cultural experts, ensure that any individual providing professional counseling services to victims of a major disaster as authorized under subsection (a), including those working for nonprofit partners and recovery organizations, is appropriately trained to address—  (1)  cultural competency, and respectful care practices; and  (2)  impacts from major disasters in communities, and to individuals, with socio-economically disadvantaged backgrounds.  . 
 8.  Case management cultural competency Section 426 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5189d ) is amended— (1) by striking  The President  and inserting the following: (a)  In general  The President  ; and  (2)  by adding at the end the following:  (b)  Cultural competency  The President shall, in consultation with affected States, local governments, and Indian tribal governments and cultural experts, ensure that any individual providing case management services to victims of a major disaster as authorized under subsection (a), including those working for nonprofit partners and recovery organizations, is appropriately trained to address—  (1)  implicit bias, cultural competency, and respectful care practices; and  (2)  impacts from major disasters in communities, and to individuals, with socio-economically disadvantaged backgrounds.  . 
 9.  Study and plan for disaster housing assistance  (a)  Study  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall—  (1)  conduct a study and develop a plan, consistent with law, under which the Agency will address providing housing assistance to survivors of major disasters or emergencies when presented with challenges such as—  (A)  the lack of proof of ownership or ownership documentation;  (B)  the presence of multiple families within a single household; and  (C)  the near loss of a community, with the majority of homes destroyed in that community, including as a result of a wildfire, earthquake, or other event causing a major disaster; and  (2)  make recommendations for legislative changes needed to address—  (A)  the unmet needs of survivors of major disasters or emergencies who are unable to document or prove ownership of the household;  (B)  the presence of multiple families within a single household; and  (C)  the near loss of a community, with the majority of homes destroyed in that community, including as a result of a wildfire, earthquake, or other event causing a major disaster.  (b)  Comprehensive report  The Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives a report that provides a detailed discussion of the plans developed under subsection (a)(1) and the recommendations of the Administrator under subsection (a)(2).  (c)  Briefing  Not later than 30 days after submission of the report and recommendations under subsection (b), the Administrator shall brief, the committees described in subsection (b) on the findings and any recommendations made pursuant to this section. 
 10.  Reimbursement  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate regarding the extent to which the Agency is using housing solutions proposed by a State or local government to reduce the time or cost required to implement housing solutions after a major disaster. 
 11.  Wildfire insurance study by the national academies  (a)  Study  (1)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall seek to enter into an agreement with the National Academy of Sciences to conduct a study of—  (A)  potential solutions to address the availability and affordability of insurance for wildfire perils in all regions of the United States, including consideration of a national all natural hazards insurance program;  (B)  the ability of States, communities, and individuals to mitigate wildfire risks, including the affordability and feasibility of such mitigation activities;  (C)  the current and potential future effects of land use policies and building codes on the potential solutions;  (D)  the reasons why many properties at risk of wildfire lack insurance coverage;  (E)  the role of insurers in providing incentives for wildfire risk mitigation efforts;  (F)  the state of catastrophic insurance and reinsurance markets and the approaches in providing insurance protection to different sectors of the population of the United States;  (G)  the role of the Federal Government and State and local governments in providing incentives for feasible wildfire risk mitigation efforts and the cost of providing assistance in the absence of insurance;  (H)  the state of modeling and mapping wildfire risk and solutions for accurately and adequately identifying future wildfire risk;  (I)  approaches to insuring wildfire risk in the United States; and  (J)  such other issues that may be necessary or appropriate for the report.  (2)  Consultation  The agreement to conduct the study described in subsection (a), shall require that, in conducting the study, the National Academy of Sciences shall consult with State insurance regulators, consumer organizations, representatives of the insurance and reinsurance industry, policyholders, and other organizations and experts, as appropriate.  (b)  Submission  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to Congress the results of the study commissioned under subsection (a).  (c)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated such sums as are necessary to carry out this section. 
 12.  Increased cap for emergency declarations based on regional cost of living  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall brief the Committee on Homeland Security and Governmental Affairs of the Senate regarding the benefits and drawbacks of establishing a maximum amount for assistance provided for an emergency that is based on the cost of living in the region in which the emergency occurs. 
 13.  Facilitating disposal of temporary transportable housing units to survivors Section 408(d)(2)(B)(i) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5174(d)(2)(B)(i) ) is amended by inserting  , with priority given to a survivor of a major disaster who suffered a property loss as a result of the major disaster  after  any person .
 14.  Deadline on code enforcement and floodplain management cost eligibility Section 406(a)(2)(D) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5172(a)(2)(D) ) is amended— (1) by striking  period of not more than 180 days  and all that follows and inserting the following:  period of—  (i)  except as provided in clause (ii), not more than 1 year after the major disaster is declared; or  (ii)  for flooding and other natural catastrophes, including a major disaster declared in relation to a fire or earthquake, not more than 1 year after the date on which incident occurs or the major disaster is declared.  . 
 15.  Permit applications for tribal upgrades to emergency operations centers Section 614(a) of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5196c(a) ) is amended by inserting  and Indian tribal governments  after  grants to States .
