 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Remote Naturalization Act .
 2.  Accommodations for naturalization oath ceremonies The Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1101 et seq. ) is amended by inserting after section 337 the following: 337A.  Remote oath ceremonies  (a)  Remote oath ceremonies  Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall establish procedures for the administration of the oath of renunciation and allegiance under section 337 using remote videoconferencing, or other remote means for individuals who cannot reasonably access, understand, or use remote videoconferencing, as an alternative to an in-person oath ceremony.  (b)  Eligible individuals  Notwithstanding section 310(b), an individual may complete the naturalization process by participating in a remote oath ceremony conducted pursuant to subsection (a) if such individual—  (1)  has an approved application for naturalization;  (2)  is unable otherwise to complete the naturalization process due to—  (A)  the cancellation or suspension of in-person oath ceremonies during—  (i) a national emergency declared by the President under the National Emergencies Act ( 50 U.S.C. 1601 et seq. ); (ii) an emergency or major disaster declared by the President under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5121 et seq. ); (iii) a public health emergency declared by the Secretary of Health and Human Services under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 247d ); or (iv)  any emergency that, in the judgment of the Secretary of Homeland Security, is appropriate for the cancellation or suspension of such ceremonies; or  (B)  the inability of the individual to attend the ceremony in person; and  (3)  elects to participate in a remote oath ceremony in lieu of waiting for an in-person ceremony.  (c)  Additional requirements  Upon establishing the procedures described in subsection (a), the Secretary of Homeland Security shall—  (1)  without undue delay, provide written notice to individuals described in subsection (b)(1) of the option of participating in a remote oath ceremony in lieu of a participating in an in-person ceremony;  (2)  to the greatest extent practicable, ensure that remote oath ceremonies are administered to individuals who elect to participate in such a ceremony not later than 30 days after the individual so notifies the Secretary; and  (3)  administer oath ceremonies to all other eligible individuals as expeditiously as possible after the end of the public health emergency referred to in subsection (b)(2).  (d)  Clarification  Failure to appear for a remote oath ceremony shall not create a presumption that the individual has abandoned his or her intent to be naturalized.  (e)  Report to Congress  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, and each year thereafter, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall submit a report to Congress that identifies, for each State and political subdivision of a State, the number of—  (1)  individuals who were scheduled for an in-person oath ceremony that was cancelled due to an emergency described in subsection (b)(2)(A);  (2)  individuals who elected to participate in a remote oath ceremony in lieu of an in-person public ceremony;  (3)  individuals who completed the naturalization process by participating in a remote oath ceremony; and  (4)  remote oath ceremonies that were conducted in the previous year.  (f)  Funding  In addition to any funds appropriated to carry out this section, the Secretary of Homeland Security may use funds from the Immigration Examinations Fee Account under section 286(m) to carry out this section.  
 . 
