
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Taxi Medallion Loan Forgiveness Debt Relief Act of 2021 .
  2.  Exclusion of discharges of qualified taxi medallion indebtedness   (a)  In general  Section 108(a)(1)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  or  at the end of subparagraph (D), by striking the period at the end of subparagraph (E) and inserting  , or , and by inserting after subparagraph (E) the following new subparagraph:

 (F)  in the case of a taxpayer other than a C corporation, the indebtedness discharged is qualified taxi medallion indebtedness which is discharged before January 1, 2023.  .   (b)  Special rules relating to qualified taxi medallion indebtedness  Section 108 of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: 

 (j)  Special rules relating to qualified taxi medallion indebtedness 
 (1)  Basis reduction  The amount excluded from gross income by reason of subsection (a)(1)(E) shall be applied to reduce (but not below zero) the basis of the taxi medallions of the taxpayer that secure the discharged indebtedness.   (2)  Qualified taxi medallion indebtedness  For purposes of this section— 
 (A)  In general The term  qualified taxi medallion indebtedness  means indebtedness which—  (i)  is secured by a taxi medallion, and 
 (ii)  with respect to which such taxpayer makes an election to have this paragraph apply.   (B)  Limitation  With respect to a taxpayer, the aggregate amount treated as qualified taxi medallion indebtedness for any period shall not exceed $2,000,000 ($1,000,000 in the case of a married individual filing a separate return). 
 (C)  Exception for certain discharges not related to taxpayer's financial condition  Subsection (a)(1)(F) shall not apply to the discharge of a loan if the discharge is on account of services performed for the lender or any other factor not directly related to a decline in the value of the taxi medallion or to the financial condition of the taxpayer.   (D)  Ordering rule  If any loan is discharged, in whole or in part, and only a portion of such loan is qualified taxi medallion indebtedness, subsection (a)(1)(F) shall apply only to so much of the amount discharged as exceeds the amount of the loan (as determined immediately before such discharge) which is not qualified taxi medallion indebtedness.  . 
 (c)  Conforming amendments 
 (1)  Section 108(a)(2) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new subparagraph:    (D)  Taxi medallion exclusion takes precedence over insolvency exclusion unless elected otherwise  Paragraph (1)(B) shall not apply to a discharge to which paragraph (1)(F) applies unless the taxpayer elects to apply paragraph (1)(B) in lieu of paragraph (1)(F).  . 
 (d)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to discharges of indebtedness after December 31, 2016. 
 