 1.  Short title; table of contents  (a)  Short title This Act may be cited as the  PFAS Action Act of 2021 . (b)  Table of contents  The table of contents for this Act is as follows:  Sec. 1. Short title; table of contents.  Sec. 2. Designation as hazardous substances.  Sec. 3. Testing of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.  Sec. 4. Manufacturing and processing notices for perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.  Sec. 5. National primary drinking water regulations for PFAS.  Sec. 6. Enforcement.  Sec. 7. Establishment of PFAS infrastructure grant program.  Sec. 8. Listing of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances as hazardous air pollutants.  Sec. 9. Prohibition on unsafe waste incineration of PFAS.  Sec. 10. Label for PFAS-free products.  Sec. 11. Guidance on minimizing the use of firefighting foam and other related equipment containing any PFAS.  Sec. 12. Investigation of prevention of contamination by GenX.  Sec. 13. Disclosure of introductions of PFAS.  Sec. 14. Household well water testing website.  Sec. 15. Risk-communication strategy.  Sec. 16. Assistance to Territories for addressing emerging contaminants, with a focus on perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.  Sec. 17. Clean Water Act effluent limitations guidelines and standards and water quality criteria for PFAS.  Sec. 18. School drinking water testing and filtration grant program.  Sec. 19. Analytical reference standards for PFAS. 
 2.  Designation as hazardous substances  (a)  Designation Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall designate perfluorooctanoic acid and its salts, and perfluoroactanesulfonic acid and its salts, as hazardous substances under section 102(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 ( 42 U.S.C. 9602(a) ). (b)  Deadline for additional determinations Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall determine whether to designate all perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, other than those perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances designated pursuant to subsection (a), as hazardous substances under section 102(a) of the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 ( 42 U.S.C. 9602(a) ) individually or in groups.  (c)  Airport sponsors  (1)  In general No sponsor, including a sponsor of the civilian portion of a joint-use airport or a shared-use airport (as such terms are defined in section 139.5 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation)), shall be liable under the Comprehensive Environmental Response, Compensation, and Liability Act of 1980 ( 42 U.S.C. 9601 et seq. ) for the costs of responding to, or damages resulting from, a release to the environment of a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance designated as a hazardous substance under section 102(a) of such Act that resulted from the use of aqueous film forming foam agent, if such use was— (A)  required by the Federal Aviation Administration for compliance with part 139 of title 14, Code of Federal Regulations; and  (B)  carried out in accordance with Federal Aviation Administration standards and guidance on the use of such substance.  (2)  Sponsor defined In this subsection, the term  sponsor  has the meaning given such term in section 47102 of title 49, United States Code.  (d)  Public availability  Not later than 60 days after making a determination under subsection (b), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall make the results of such determination publicly available on the website of the Environmental Protection Agency.  (e)  Review  (1)  In general  Not later than 5 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report containing a review of actions by the Environmental Protection Agency to clean up contamination of the substances designated pursuant to subsection (a).  (2)  Matters included   The report under paragraph (1) shall include an assessment of cleanup progress and effectiveness, including the following:  (A)  The number of sites where the Environmental Protection Agency has acted to remediate contamination of the substances designated pursuant to subsection (a).  (B)  Which types of chemicals relating to such substances were present at each site and the extent to which each site was contaminated.  (C)  An analysis of discrepancies in cleanup between Federal and non-Federal contamination sites.  (D)  Any other elements the Administrator may determine necessary.  (3)  Appropriate congressional committees defined In this subsection, the term  appropriate congressional committees  means the following: (A)  The Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives.  (B)  The Committee on the Environment and Public Works of the Senate. 
 3.  Testing of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances  (a)  Testing requirements Section 4(a) of the Toxic Substances Control Act ( 15 U.S.C. 2603(a) ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (5)  Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances rule  (A)  Rule  Notwithstanding paragraphs (1) through (3), the Administrator shall, by rule, require that comprehensive toxicity testing be conducted on all chemical substances that are perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances.  (B)  Requirements  In issuing a rule under subparagraph (A), the Administrator—  (i)  may establish categories of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances based on hazard characteristics or chemical properties;  (ii)  shall require the development of information relating to perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances that the Administrator determines is likely to be useful in evaluating the hazard and risk posed by such substances in land, air, and water (including drinking water and water used for agricultural purposes), as well as in products; and  (iii)  may allow for varied or tiered testing requirements based on hazard characteristics or chemical properties of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances or categories of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.  (C)  Deadlines  The Administrator shall issue—  (i)  a proposed rule under subparagraph (A) not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this paragraph; and  (ii)  a final rule under subparagraph (A) not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph.  .  (b)  Persons subject to rule Section 4(b)(3) of the Toxic Substances Control Act ( 15 U.S.C. 2603(b)(3) ) is amended— (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking  subparagraph (B) or (C)  and inserting  subparagraph (B), (C), or (D) ; and (2)  by adding at the end the following:  (D)  A rule under subsection (a)(5) shall require the development of information by any person who manufactures or processes, or intends to manufacture or process, a chemical substance that is a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance.  .  (c)  Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances Section 4 of the Toxic Substances Control Act ( 15 U.S.C. 2603 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (i)  Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances  (1)  Testing requirement rule  (A)  Protocols and methodologies  In determining the protocols and methodologies to be included pursuant to subsection (b)(1) in a rule under subsection (a)(5), the Administrator shall allow for protocols and methodologies that test chemical substances that are perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances as a class.  (B)  Period  In determining the period to be included pursuant to subsection (b)(1) in a rule under subsection (a)(5), the Administrator shall ensure that the period is as short as possible while allowing for completion of the required testing.  (2)  Exemptions  In carrying out subsection (c) with respect to a chemical substance that is a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance, the Administrator—  (A)  may only determine under subsection (c)(2) that information would be duplicative if the chemical substance with respect to which the application for exemption is submitted is in the same category, as established under subsection (a)(5)(B)(i), as a chemical substance for which information has been submitted to the Administrator in accordance with a rule, order, or consent agreement under subsection (a) or for which information is being developed pursuant to such a rule, order, or consent agreement; and  (B)  shall publish a list of all such chemical substances for which an exemption under subsection (c) is granted.  . 
 4.  Manufacturing and processing notices for perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances Section 5 of the Toxic Substances Control Act ( 15 U.S.C. 2604 ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (h), by adding at the end the following:  (7)  PFAS  (A)  In general  Except as provided in subparagraph (B), this subsection does not apply to any chemical substance that is a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance.  (B)  Drugs and devices  Paragraph (3) applies to a chemical substance that is a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance which is manufactured or processed, or proposed to be manufactured or processed, solely for purposes of—  (i)  scientific experimentation or analysis with respect to a drug or device (as such terms are defined in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act) or personal protective equipment (as such term is defined in section 20005 of the CARES Act); or  (ii)  chemical research on, or analysis of, such a chemical substance for the development of a drug or device (as such terms are defined in section 201 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act) or personal protective equipment (as such term is defined in section 20005 of the CARES Act).  ; and  (2)  by adding at the end the following:  (j)  Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances  (1)  Determination  For a period of 5 years beginning on the date of enactment of this subsection, any chemical substance that is a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance for which a notice is submitted under subsection (a) shall be deemed to have been determined by the Administrator to present an unreasonable risk of injury to health or the environment under paragraph (3)(A) of such subsection.  (2)  Order  Notwithstanding subsection (a)(3)(A), for a chemical substance described in paragraph (1) of this subsection, the Administrator shall issue an order under subsection (f)(3) to prohibit the manufacture, processing, and distribution in commerce of such chemical substance.  . 
 5.  National primary drinking water regulations for PFAS Section 1412(b) of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300g–1(b) ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (16)  Perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances  (A)  In general  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph, the Administrator shall, after notice and opportunity for public comment, promulgate a national primary drinking water regulation for perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, which shall, at a minimum, include standards for—  (i) perfluorooctanoic acid (commonly referred to as  PFOA ); and (ii) perfluorooctane sulfonic acid (commonly referred to as  PFOS ). (B)  Alternative procedures  (i)  In general  Not later than 1 year after the validation by the Administrator of an equally effective quality control and testing procedure to ensure compliance with the national primary drinking water regulation promulgated under subparagraph (A) to measure the levels described in clause (ii) or other methods to detect and monitor perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances in drinking water, the Administrator shall add the procedure or method as an alternative to the quality control and testing procedure described in such national primary drinking water regulation by publishing the procedure or method in the Federal Register in accordance with section 1401(1)(D).  (ii)  Levels described  The levels referred to in clause (i) are—  (I)  the level of a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance;  (II)  the total levels of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances; and  (III)  the total levels of organic fluorine.  (C)  Inclusions  The Administrator may include a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances on—  (i)  the list of contaminants for consideration of regulation under paragraph (1)(B)(i), in accordance with such paragraph; and  (ii)  the list of unregulated contaminants to be monitored under section 1445(a)(2)(B)(i), in accordance with such section.  (D)  Monitoring  When establishing monitoring requirements for public water systems as part of a national primary drinking water regulation under subparagraph (A) or subparagraph (G)(ii), the Administrator shall tailor the monitoring requirements for public water systems that do not detect or are reliably and consistently below the maximum contaminant level (as defined in section 1418(b)(2)(B)) for the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances subject to the national primary drinking water regulation.  (E)  Health protection  The national primary drinking water regulation promulgated under subparagraph (A) shall be protective of the health of subpopulations at greater risk, as described in section 1458.  (F)  Health risk reduction and cost analysis  In meeting the requirements of paragraph (3)(C), the Administrator may rely on information available to the Administrator with respect to one or more specific perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances to extrapolate reasoned conclusions regarding the health risks and effects of a class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances of which the specific perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances are a part.  (G)  Regulation of additional substances  (i)  Determination  The Administrator shall make a determination under paragraph (1)(A), using the criteria described in clauses (i) through (iii) of that paragraph, whether to include a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances in the national primary drinking water regulation under subparagraph (A) not later than 18 months after the later of—  (I)  the date on which the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances is listed on the list of contaminants for consideration of regulation under paragraph (1)(B)(i); and  (II)  the date on which—  (aa)  the Administrator has received the results of monitoring under section 1445(a)(2)(B) for the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances; or  (bb)  the Administrator has received reliable water data or water monitoring surveys for the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances from a Federal or State agency that the Administrator determines to be of a quality sufficient to make a determination under paragraph (1)(A).  (ii)  Primary drinking water regulations  (I)  In general  For each perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances that the Administrator determines to regulate under clause (i), the Administrator—  (aa)  not later than 18 months after the date on which the Administrator makes the determination, shall propose a national primary drinking water regulation for the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances; and  (bb)  may publish the proposed national primary drinking water regulation described in item (aa) concurrently with the publication of the determination to regulate the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances.  (II)  Deadline  (aa)  In general  Not later than 1 year after the date on which the Administrator publishes a proposed national primary drinking water regulation under clause (i)(I) and subject to item (bb), the Administrator shall take final action on the proposed national primary drinking water regulation.  (bb)  Extension  The Administrator, on publication of notice in the Federal Register, may extend the deadline under item (aa) by not more than 6 months.  (H)  Health advisory  (i)  In general  Subject to clause (ii), the Administrator shall publish a health advisory under paragraph (1)(F) for a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances not subject to a national primary drinking water regulation not later than 1 year after the later of—   (I)  the date on which the Administrator finalizes a toxicity value for the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances; and  (II)  the date on which the Administrator validates an effective quality control and testing procedure for the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances.  (ii)  Waiver  The Administrator may waive the requirements of clause (i) with respect to a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances if the Administrator determines that there is a substantial likelihood that the perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances will not occur in drinking water with sufficient frequency to justify the publication of a health advisory, and publishes such determination, including the information and analysis used, and basis for, such determination, in the Federal Register.  .  
 6.  Enforcement Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency may not impose financial penalties for the violation of a national primary drinking water regulation (as defined in section 1401 of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300f )) with respect to a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance or class of perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substances for which a national primary drinking water regulation has been promulgated under section 1412(b)(16) of the Safe Drinking Water Act earlier than the date that is 5 years after the date on which the Administrator promulgates the national primary drinking water regulation.
 7.  Establishment of PFAS infrastructure grant program Part E of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300j et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 1459E.  Assistance for community water systems affected by PFAS  (a)  Establishment  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall establish a program to award grants to affected community water systems to pay for capital costs associated with the implementation of eligible treatment technologies.  (b)  Applications  (1)  Guidance  Not later than 12 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall publish guidance describing the form and timing for community water systems to apply for grants under this section.  (2)  Required information  The Administrator shall require a community water system applying for a grant under this section to submit—  (A)  information showing the presence of PFAS in water of the community water system; and  (B)  a certification that the treatment technology in use by the community water system at the time of application is not sufficient to meet all applicable standards, and all applicable health advisories published pursuant to section 1412(b)(1)(F), for perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.  (c)  List of eligible treatment technologies  Not later than 150 days after the date of enactment of this section, and every 2 years thereafter, the Administrator shall publish a list of treatment technologies that the Administrator determines are the most effective at removing perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances from drinking water.  (d)  Priority for funding  In awarding grants under this section, the Administrator shall prioritize an affected community water system that—  (1)  serves a disadvantaged community;  (2)  will provide at least a 10-percent cost share for the cost of implementing an eligible treatment technology;  (3)  demonstrates the capacity to maintain the eligible treatment technology to be implemented using the grant; or  (4) is located within an area with respect to which the Administrator has published a determination under the first sentence of section 1424(e) relating to an aquifer that is the sole or principal drinking water source for the area. (e)  No increased bonding authority Amounts awarded to affected community water systems under this section may not be used as a source of payment of, or security for (directly or indirectly), in whole or in part, any obligation the interest on which is exempt from the tax imposed under  chapter 1  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986.  (f)  Authorization of appropriations  (1)  In general  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section not more than $500,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.  (2)  Special rule  Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated by paragraph (1), $25,000,000 are authorized to be appropriated for each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023 for grants under subsection (a) to pay for capital costs associated with the implementation of eligible treatment technologies during the period beginning on October 1, 2014, and ending on the date of enactment of this section.  (g)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Affected community water system The term  affected community water system  means a community water system that is affected by the presence of PFAS in the water in the community water system. (2)  Disadvantaged community The term  disadvantaged community  has the meaning given that term in section 1452.  (3)  Disproportionately exposed community The term  disproportionately exposed community  means a community in which climate change, pollution, or environmental destruction have exacerbated systemic racial, regional, social, environmental, and economic injustices by disproportionately affecting indigenous peoples, communities of color, migrant communities, deindustrialized communities, depopulated rural communities, the poor, low-income workers, women, the elderly, the unhoused, people with disabilities, or youth. (4)  Eligible treatment technology The term  eligible treatment technology  means a treatment technology included on the list published under subsection (c). (5)  PFAS The term  PFAS  means a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance with at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom, including the chemical GenX.
 . 
 8.  Listing of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances as hazardous air pollutants  (a)  Listing  (1)  Initial listing Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall issue a final rule adding perfluorooctanoic acid and its salts, and perfluoroactanesulfonic acid and its salts, to the list of hazardous air pollutants under section 112(b) of the Clean Air Act ( 42 U.S.C. 7412(b) ). (2)  Additional listings Not later than 5 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall determine whether to issue, in accordance with section 112 of the Clean Air Act ( 42 U.S.C. 7412 ), any final rules adding perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, other than those perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances listed pursuant to paragraph (1), to the list of hazardous air pollutants under section 112(b) of such Act. (b)  Sources categories Not later than 365 days after any final rule is issued pursuant to subsection (a), the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall revise the list under section 112(c)(1) of the Clean Air Act ( 42 U.S.C. 7412(c)(1) ) to include categories and subcategories of major sources and area sources of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances listed pursuant to such final rule.
 9.  Prohibition on unsafe waste incineration of PFAS Section 3004 of the Solid Waste Disposal Act ( 42 U.S.C. 6924 ) is amended by adding at the end the following new subsection: (z)  PFAS wastes  (1)  Firefighting foam  Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this subsection, the Administrator shall promulgate regulations requiring that when materials containing perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances or aqueous film forming foam are disposed—  (A)  all incineration is conducted in a manner that eliminates perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances while also minimizing perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances emitted into the air to the extent feasible;   (B)  all incineration is conducted in accordance with the requirements of the Clean Air Act, including controlling hydrogen fluoride;   (C)  any materials containing perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances that are designated for disposal are stored in accordance with the requirement under part 264 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations; and   (D)  all incineration is conducted at a facility that has been permitted to receive waste regulated under this subtitle.  (2)  Penalties  For purposes of section 3008(d), a waste subject to a prohibition under this subsection shall be considered a hazardous waste identified or listed under this subtitle.  . 
 10.  Label for PFAS-free products  (a)  Label for PFAS-Free products  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall—  (1)  revise the Safer Choice Standard of the Safer Choice Program to identify the requirements for a covered product to meet in order to be labeled with a Safer Choice label, including a requirement that any such covered product does not contain any PFAS; or  (2)  establish a voluntary label that is available to be used by any manufacturer of any covered product that the Administrator has reviewed and found does not contain any PFAS.  (b)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Covered product The term  covered product  means— (A)  a pot,  (B)  a pan;  (C)  a cooking utensil;  (D)  carpet;  (E)  a rug;  (F)  clothing;  (G)  upholstered furniture;  (H)  a stain resistant, water resistant, or grease resistant coating not subject to requirements under section 409 of the Federal Food, Drug, and Cosmetic Act;   (I)  food packaging material;  (J)  an umbrella;  (K)  luggage; or  (L)  a cleaning product.  (2)  PFAS The term  PFAS  means a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance with at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom. 
 11.  Guidance on minimizing the use of firefighting foam and other related equipment containing any PFAS  (a)  Guidance  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the head of the U.S. Fire Administration, Federal Aviation Administration, and other relevant Federal departments or agencies and representatives of State and local building and fire code enforcement jurisdictions, shall issue guidance on minimizing the use of, or contact with, firefighting foam and other related equipment containing any PFAS by firefighters, police officers, paramedics, emergency medical technicians, and other first responders, in order to minimize the risk to such firefighters, police officers, paramedics, emergency medical technicians, and other first responders, and the environment, without jeopardizing firefighting efforts.   (b)  Annual report  Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Administrator, in consultation with the head of the U.S. Fire Administration, shall submit to Congress a report on the effectiveness of the guidance issued under subsection (a). Such report shall include recommendations for congressional actions that the Administrator determines appropriate to assist efforts to reduce exposure to PFAS by firefighters and the other persons described in subsection (a).   (c)  Report  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency, in consultation with the head of the U.S. Fire Administration and other relevant Federal departments or agencies, shall report to Congress on the efforts of the Environmental Protection Agency and other relevant Federal departments and agencies to identify viable alternatives to firefighting foam and other related equipment containing any PFAS.  (d)  Definition  In this section, the term “PFAS” means perfluorooctanoic acid, perfluorooctanesulfonic acid, and any other perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance with at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom that the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency determines is used in firefighting foam and other related equipment.  
 12.  Investigation of prevention of contamination by GenX  The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall investigate methods and means to prevent contamination by GenX of surface waters, including source waters used for drinking water purposes.  
 13.  Disclosure of introductions of PFAS  (a)  In general  The introduction of any perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance by the owner or operator of an industrial source shall be unlawful unless such owner or operator first notifies the owner or operator of the applicable treatment works of—  (1)  the identity and quantity of such substance;  (2)  whether such substance is susceptible to treatment by such treatment works; and  (3)  whether such substance would interfere with the operation of the treatment works.  (b)  Violations A violation of this section shall be treated in the same manner as a violation of a regulation promulgated under subsection 307(b) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1317(b) ). (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Introduction The term  introduction  means the introduction of pollutants into treatment works, as described in section 307(b) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1317 ). (2)  Treatment works The term  treatment works  has the meaning given that term in section 212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1292 ).
 14.  Household well water testing website  (a)  In general  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall establish a website containing information relating to the testing of household well water.  (b)  Contents  The Administrator shall include on the website established under subsection (a) the following:  (1)  Information on how to get groundwater that is the source for a household water well tested by a well inspector who is certified by a qualified third party.  (2)  A list of laboratories that analyze water samples and are certified by a State or the Administrator.  (3)  State-specific information, developed in coordination with each State, on naturally occurring and human-induced contaminants.  (4)  Information that, using accepted risk communication techniques, clearly communicates whether a test result value exceeds a level determined by the Administrator or the State to pose a health risk.  (5)  Information on treatment options, including information relating to water treatment systems certified to the relevant NSF/ANSI American National Standard for drinking water treatment units by a third-party certification body accredited by the ANSI National Accreditation Board.  (6)  A directory of whom to contact to report a test result value that exceeds a level determined by the Administrator or the State to pose a health risk.  (7) Information on financial assistance that is available for homeowners to support water treatment, including grants under section 306E of the Consolidated Farm and Rural Development Act ( 7 U.S.C. 1926e ) and State resources. (8)  Information about the health risks associated with consuming water contaminated with PFAS as well as recommendations for individuals who believe they may have consumed such PFAS-contaminated water.  (9)  Any other information the Administrator considers appropriate.  (c)  Access  The Administrator shall ensure information on the website established under subsection (a) is presented in a manner that provides meaningful access to such information for individuals with limited English proficiency.  (d)  Coordination  The Administrator shall coordinate with the Secretary of Health and Human Services, the Secretary of Agriculture, and appropriate State agencies in carrying out this section.  (e)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $1,000,000 for fiscal year 2022.  
 15.  Risk-communication strategy  The Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall develop a risk-communication strategy to inform the public about the hazards or potential hazards of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, or categories of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances, by—  (1)  disseminating information about the risks or potential risks posed by such substances or categories in land, air, water (including drinking water and water used for agricultural purposes), and products;  (2)  notifying the public about exposure pathways and mitigation measures through outreach and educational resources; and  (3)  consulting with States that have demonstrated effective risk-communication strategies for best practices in developing a national risk-communication strategy.  
 16.  Assistance to Territories for addressing emerging contaminants, with a focus on perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances Section 1452(t) of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300j–12 ) is amended— (1)  by redesignating paragraph (2) as paragraph (3); and  (2)  by inserting after paragraph (1) the following new paragraph:  (2)  Assistance to Territories  To the extent that sufficient applications are received, the Administrator shall use not less than 2 percent of the amounts made available under this subsection to provide grants to the Virgin Islands, the Commonwealth of the Northern Mariana Islands, American Samoa, and Guam for the purpose of addressing emerging contaminants, with a focus on perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances.  .  
 17.  Clean Water Act effluent limitations guidelines and standards and water quality criteria for PFAS  (a)  Deadlines  (1)  Water quality criteria Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall publish in the Federal Register human health water quality criteria under section 304(a)(1) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1314 ) for each measurable perfluoroalkyl substance, polyfluoroalkyl substance, and class of such substances. (2)  Effluent limitations guidelines and standards for priority industry categories  As soon as practicable, but not later than 4 years after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall publish in the Federal Register a final rule establishing, for each priority industry category, effluent limitations guidelines and standards, in accordance with the Federal Water Pollution Control Act, for the discharge (including a discharge into a publicly owned treatment works) of each measurable perfluoroalkyl substance, polyfluoroalkyl substance, and class of such substances.  (b)  Notification  The Administrator shall notify the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Environment and Public Works of the Senate of each publication made under this section.  (c)  Implementation assistance for publicly owned treatment works  (1)  In general  The Administrator shall award grants to owners and operators of publicly owned treatment works, to be used to implement effluent limitations guidelines and standards developed by the Administrator for a perfluoroalkyl substance, polyfluoroalkyl substance, or class of such substances.  (2)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Administrator to carry out this subsection $200,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026, to remain available until expended.  (d)  No increased bonding authority Amounts awarded to an owner or operator of a publicly owned treatment works under this section may not be used as a source of payment of, or security for (directly or indirectly), in whole or in part, any obligation the interest on which is exempt from the tax imposed under  chapter 1  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Administrator The term  Administrator  means the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency. (2)  Effluent limitation The term  effluent limitation  has the meaning given that term in section 502 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1362 ). (3)  Measurable The term  measurable  means, with respect to a chemical substance or class of chemical substances, capable of being measured using test procedures established under section 304(h) of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1314 ). (4)  Perfluoroalkyl substance The term  perfluoroalkyl substance  means a chemical of which all of the carbon atoms are fully fluorinated carbon atoms. (5)  Polyfluoroalkyl substance The term  polyfluoroalkyl substance  means a chemical containing at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom and at least one carbon atom that is not a fully fluorinated carbon atom. (6)  Priority industry category The term  priority industry category  means the following point source categories: (A)  Organic chemicals, plastics, and synthetic fibers, as identified in part 414 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).  (B)  Pulp, paper, and paperboard, as identified in part 430 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).  (C)  Textile mills, as identified in part 410 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).  (D)  Electroplating, as identified in part 413 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).  (E)  Metal finishing, as identified in part 433 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).  (F)  Leather tanning and finishing, as identified in part 425 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).  (G)  Paint formulating, as identified in part 446 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).  (H)  Electrical and electronic components, as identified in part 469 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).  (I)  Plastics molding and forming, as identified in part 463 of title 40, Code of Federal Regulations (or successor regulations).  (7)  Treatment works The term  treatment works  has the meaning given that term in section 212 of the Federal Water Pollution Control Act ( 33 U.S.C. 1292 ).
 18.  School drinking water testing and filtration grant program Part F of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300j–21 et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following: 1466.  School PFAS testing and filtration grant program  (a)  In general  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this section, the Administrator shall establish a program to make grants to eligible entities for—  (1)  testing for perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances in drinking water at schools that is conducted by an entity approved by the Administrator or the applicable State to conduct the testing;  (2)  installation, maintenance, and repair of water filtration systems effective for reducing perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances in drinking water at schools that contains a level of any perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance that exceeds—  (A)  an applicable maximum contaminant level established by the Administrator under section 1412; or  (B)  an applicable standard established by the applicable State that is more stringent than the level described in subparagraph (A); or  (3)  safe disposal of spent water filtration equipment used to reduce perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances in drinking water at schools.  (b)  Guidance; public availability  As a condition of receiving a grant under this section, an eligible entity shall—  (1)  expend grant funds in accordance with any applicable State regulation or guidance regarding the reduction of perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances in drinking water at schools that is not less stringent than any applicable guidance issued by the Administrator;  (2)  make publicly available, including, to the maximum extent practicable, on the website of the eligible entity, a copy of the results of any testing carried out with grant funds received under this section; and  (3)  notify parent, teacher, and employee organizations of the availability of the results described in paragraph (2).  (c)  Limitation  An eligible entity receiving a grant under this section may use not more than 5 percent of grant funds to pay the administrative costs of carrying out the activities for which the grant was made.  (d)  Definition of eligible entity In this section, the term  eligible entity  means— (1)  a local educational agency; or  (2)  a State agency that administers a statewide program to test for, remediate, or filter perfluoroalkyl and polyfluoroalkyl substances in drinking water.  (e)  Authorization of appropriation  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026, to remain available until expended. 
 . 
 19.  Analytical reference standards for PFAS  (a)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Environmental Protection Agency shall require each covered entity to submit to the Administrator an analytical reference standard for each perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance with at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom manufactured by the covered entity after the date that is 10 years prior to the date of enactment of this Act.  (b)  Uses  The Administrator may—  (1)  use an analytical reference standard submitted under this section only for—  (A)  the development of information, protocols, and methodologies, which may be carried out by an entity determined appropriate by the Administrator; and  (B)  activities relating to the implementation or enforcement of Federal requirements; and  (2)  provide an analytical reference standard submitted under this section to a State, to be used only for—  (A)  the development of information, protocols, and methodologies, which may be carried out by an entity determined appropriate by the State; and  (B)  activities relating to the implementation or enforcement of State requirements.  (c)  Prohibition  No person receiving an analytical reference standard submitted under this section may use or transfer the analytical reference standard for a commercial purpose.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Covered entity The term  covered entity  means a manufacturer of a perfluoroalkyl or polyfluoroalkyl substance with at least one fully fluorinated carbon atom. (2)  Manufacture; State The terms  manufacture  and  State  have the meanings given those terms in section 3 of the Toxic Substances Control Act ( 15 U.S.C. 2602 ).
