
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protecting Job Opportunities for Borrowers Act   or the  Protecting JOBs Act .
  2.  Prohibition against suspension, revocation, or denial of State-issued professional licenses or penalties due to student default   (a)  Higher Education Act of 1965 loans Part B of title I of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1011  et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following:

 124.  Prohibition against suspension, revocation, or denial of State-issued professional licenses or penalties due to student default 
 (a)  Prohibition  Beginning 2 years after the date of enactment of the Protecting Job Opportunities for Borrowers Act, a State that receives assistance under this Act may not suspend, revoke, or deny the approval or renewal of a State-issued license described in subsection (b) or issue a fine or other penalty with respect to an individual based solely on such individual's default or delinquency on a loan made, insured, or guaranteed under title IV.   (b)  Types of licenses  A State-issued license described in this subsection means any of the following: 
 (1)  A State-issued driver's license (including any State-issued document permitting a specific individual to operate one or more types of motorized vehicles, such as a motorcycle, car, truck, or bus on a public road).   (2)  A State-issued teaching license. 
 (3)  A State-issued professional license involved in or affecting interstate commerce (including any license, permit, certificate, registration, charter, authority or similar form of permission required for lawful employment in a particular career field).   (c)  Injunctive relief  Any individual aggrieved as a result of a violation of subsection (a) may bring a civil action in an appropriate district court of the United States to obtain prospective injunctive relief against an individual State officer in the officer's official capacity. 
 . 
 (b)  Health education loans 
 (1)  In general A State may not suspend, revoke, or deny the approval or renewal of a State-issued license described in section 124(b) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 or issue a fine or other penalty with respect to an individual based solely on such individual's default or delinquency on a Health Education Assistance Loan or Primary Care Loan made under part A of title VII of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 292  et seq.).  (2)  Injunctive relief  Any individual aggrieved as a result of a violation of paragraph (1) may bring a civil action in an appropriate district court of the United States to obtain prospective injunctive relief against an individual State officer in the officer's official capacity. 

