 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Federal Bird Safe Buildings Act of 2021 .
 2.  Use of bird-safe features, practices, and strategies in public buildings  (a)  In general  Chapter 33  of title 40, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 3319.  Use of bird-safe features, practices, and strategies in public buildings  (a)  Construction, alteration, and acquisition of public buildings  The Administrator of General Services shall incorporate, to the extent practicable, features, practices, and strategies to reduce bird fatality resulting from collisions with public buildings for each public building—  (1)  constructed;  (2)  acquired; or  (3)  of which more than 50 percent of the facade is substantially altered (in the opinion of the Commissioner of Public Buildings).  (b)  Design guide  The Administrator shall develop a design guide to carry out subsection (a) that includes the following:  (1)  Features for reducing bird fatality resulting from collisions with public buildings throughout all construction phases, taking into account the number of each such bird fatality that occurs at different types of public buildings.  (2)  Methods and strategies for reducing bird fatality resulting from collisions with public buildings during the operation and maintenance of such buildings, including installing interior, exterior, and site lighting.  (3)  Best practices for reducing bird fatality resulting from collisions with public buildings, including—  (A)  a description of the reasons for adopting such practices; and  (B)  an explanation for the omission of a best practice identified pursuant to subsection (c).  (c)  Identifying best practices  To carry out subsection (b)(3), the Administrator may identify best practices for reducing bird fatality resulting from collisions with public buildings, including best practices recommended by—  (1)  Federal agencies with expertise in bird conservation;  (2)  nongovernmental organizations with expertise in bird conservation; and  (3)  representatives of green building certification systems.  (d)  Dissemination of design guide  The Administrator shall disseminate the design guide developed pursuant to subsection (b) to all Federal agencies, subagencies, and departments with independent leasing authority from the Administrator.  (e)  Update to design guide  The Administrator shall, on a regular basis, update the design guide developed pursuant to subsection (b) with respect to the priorities of the Administrator for reducing bird fatality resulting from collisions with public buildings.  (f)  Exempt buildings  This section shall not apply to—  (1)  any building or site listed, or eligible for listing, on the National Register of Historic Places;  (2)  the White House and the grounds of the White House;  (3)  the Supreme Court building and the grounds of the Supreme Court; or  (4)  the United States Capitol and any building on the grounds of the Capitol.  (g)  Certification  Not later than October 1 of each fiscal year, the Administrator, acting through the Commissioner, shall certify to Congress that the Administrator uses the design guide developed pursuant to subsection (b) for each public building described in subsection (a).  (h)  Report  Not later than October 1 of each fiscal year, the Administrator shall submit to Congress a report that includes—   (1)  the certification under subsection (g); and  (2)  to the extent practicable, the number of each such bird fatality that occurred as a result of a collision with the public buildings occupied by the respective head of each Federal agency. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections at the beginning of  chapter 33  of title 40, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new item: 3319. Use of bird-safe features, practices, and strategies in public buildings.  . 
