 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Federal Government Decentralization Commission Act .
 2.  Establishment There is established in the General Services Administration a commission to be known as the  Federal Government Decentralization Commission  (in this Act referred to as the  Commission ).
 3.  Duties of Commission  The Commission shall—  (1)  study the relocation of executive agencies or divisions of executive agencies outside the Washington metropolitan area; and  (2)  submit to Congress a plan for the relocation of recommended agencies or divisions. 
 4.  Membership  (a)  Number and appointment  The Commission shall be composed of the Administrator of General Services (or a designee) and 10 other members, appointed as follows:  (1)  Two members shall be appointed by the majority leader of the Senate.  (2)  Two members shall be appointed by the Speaker of the House of Representatives.  (3)  Two members shall be appointed by the minority leader of the Senate.  (4)  Two members shall be appointed by the minority leader of the House of Representatives.  (5)  Two members shall be appointed by the Administrator of the General Service Administration.  (b)  Deadline for initial appointment  The initial members of the Commission shall be appointed not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.  (c)  Vacancies  A vacancy in the Commission—  (1)  shall not affect the powers of the Commission; and  (2)  shall be filled in the same manner as the original appointment was made.  (d)  Compensation  Each member of the Commission shall serve without pay.  (e)  Travel expenses Each member of the Commission shall be allowed a per diem allowance for travel expenses, at rates consistent with those authorized under subchapter I of  chapter 57  of title 5, United States Code. (f)  Chairperson  The Chairperson of the Commission shall be the Administrator of General Services (or a designee). 
 5.  Administrative support and staff provided by the General Services Administration  Administrative and support staff for the Commission shall be provided by the General Services Administration. 
 6.  Submission of plan to Congress  (a)  In general  Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Commission shall develop and submit to Congress a plan for the relocation of executive agencies or divisions of executive agencies outside the Washington metropolitan area.  (b)  Requirements for plan  The plan shall include the following:  (1)  An identification of new locations for executive agencies or divisions of executive agencies outside the Washington metropolitan area, which shall be prioritized—  (A)  by relocation to a low-income community; or  (B)  by relocation to areas with expertise in the mission and goal of the executive agency or division.  (2)  A consideration of national security implications of the relocation.  (3)  An economic and workforce development study on how the relocation of an executive agency or division would impact the new location.  (4)  A list of potential site acquisitions and partial prospectus for executive agencies or divisions of executive agencies, which shall include—  (A)  a brief description of the building to be constructed, altered, or leased;  (B)  the location of the building; and  (C)  an estimate of the maximum cost of the acquisition and the relocation. 
 7.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Executive agency The term  executive agency  has the meaning given the term  Executive agency  in section 105 of title 5, United States Code, except that the term does not include the Executive Office of the President. (2)  Low-income community The term  low-income community  has the meaning given that term in  section 45D(e)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 ( 26 U.S.C. 45D(e) ). (3)  Washington metropolitan area The term  Washington metropolitan area  means the geographic area located within the boundaries of— (A)  the District of Columbia;  (B)  Montgomery and Prince George’s Counties in the State of Maryland; and  (C)  Arlington, Fairfax, Loudon, and Prince William Counties and the City of Alexandria in the Commonwealth of Virginia. 
 8.  Termination  The Commission shall terminate 30 days after the submission of the plan under section 6. 
 9.  Funding  No new appropriations may be obligated to carry out this Act. 
