 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Research Excellence through STEM Inclusion Act .
 2.  Chief Diversity Officer of the NSF  (a)  Chief diversity officer  (1)  Appointment  The Director shall appoint a senior agency official within the Office of the Director as a Chief Diversity Officer.  (2)  Qualifications  The Chief Diversity Officer shall have significant experience, within the Federal Government and the science community, with diversity- and inclusion-related matters, including—  (A)  civil rights compliance;  (B)  harassment policy, reviews, and investigations;   (C)  equal employment opportunity; and  (D)  disability policy.   (3)  Oversight  The Chief Diversity Officer shall direct the Office of Diversity and Inclusion of the Foundation and report directly to the Director in the performance of the duties of the Chief Diversity Officer under this section.  (b)  Duties  The Chief Diversity Officer is responsible for providing advice on policy, oversight, guidance, and coordination with respect to matters of the Foundation related to diversity and inclusion, including ensuring the geographic diversity of the Foundation programs. Other duties may include—  (1)  establishing and maintaining a strategic plan that publicly states a diversity definition, vision, and goals for the Foundation;  (2)  defining a set of strategic metrics that are—  (A)  directly linked to key organizational priorities and goals;   (B)  actionable; and   (C)  actively used to implement the strategic plan under paragraph (1);  (3) advising in the establishment of a strategic plan for diverse participation by individuals and institutions of higher education, including community colleges, historically Black colleges and universities, Tribal colleges or universities, minority-serving institutions, institutions of higher education with an established STEM capacity building program focused on traditionally underrepresented populations in STEM, including Native Hawaiians, Alaska Natives, and Indians, and institutions from jurisdictions eligible to participate under section 113 of the National Science Foundation Authorization Act of 1988 ( 42 U.S.C. 1862g );  (4)  advising in the establishment of a strategic plan for outreach to, and recruiting from, untapped locations and underrepresented populations;  (5)  advising on a diversity and inclusion strategy for the Foundation’s portfolio of PreK–12 STEM education focused programs and activities, including goals for addressing barriers to participation;  (6)  advising on the application of the Foundation's broader impacts review criterion; and  (7)  performing such additional duties and exercise such powers as the Director may prescribe.  (c)  Funding  From any amounts appropriated for the Foundation for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026, the Director shall allocate $5,000,000 to carry out this section for each such year.  
