 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  New Overages in Crisis Areas Prevention Act   or the  NO CAP Act  .
 2.  Requirements for broadband providers during emergencies and major disasters Title VII of the Communications Act of 1934 ( 47 U.S.C. 601  et seq.) is amended by adding at the end the following: 723.  Requirements for broadband providers during emergencies and major disasters  (a)  In general  During a covered period with respect to a covered area, a provider of broadband internet access service may not, with respect to a customer of such provider in such area—  (1)  increase any rate, fee, or other charge relating to such service;  (2)  impose any rate, fee, or other charge relating to such service that did not apply before such period; or  (3)  enforce any data cap or allowance, regardless of whether such data cap or allowance applied before such period.  (b)  Inapplicability to mobile broadband internet access service  This section does not apply with respect to mobile broadband internet access service.  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Broadband internet access service  (A)  In general The term  broadband internet access service  means a mass-market retail service by wire or radio that provides the capability to transmit data to and receive data from all or substantially all internet endpoints, including any capabilities that are incidental to and enable the operation of the communications service, but excluding dial-up internet access service. (B)  Functional equivalent; evasion The term  broadband internet access service  includes any service that— (i)  provides a functional equivalent of the service described in subparagraph (A); or  (ii)  is used to evade the protections set forth in this section.  (2)  Covered area The term  covered area  means a geographical area with respect to which— (A) a major disaster or emergency is declared under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5121  et seq.); or (B) a public health emergency is declared under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 247d ). (3)  Covered period The term  covered period  means, with respect to a covered area, the period that— (A)  begins on the date of the declaration with respect to such area of—  (i) a major disaster or emergency under the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5121  et seq.); or (ii) a public health emergency under section 319 of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 247d ); and (B)  ends on the date that is 60 days after the termination of such major disaster, emergency, or public health emergency (as the case may be).  (4)  Data cap or allowance The term  data cap or allowance  means a limit on, or a fee-based structure with the purpose of limiting, the number of bits a customer may download or upload using broadband internet access service during a period of time specified by the provider of such service. (5)  Educational institution The term  educational institution  means— (A) an elementary school (as defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 )); (B)  a secondary school (as defined in such section); and  (C) an institution of higher education (as defined in section 101 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001 )). (6)  Mobile broadband internet access service  (A)  In general The term  mobile broadband internet access service  means a broadband internet access service that serves end users primarily using mobile stations. (B)  Inclusions The term  mobile broadband internet access service  includes— (i)  broadband internet access services that use smartphones or mobile-network-enabled tablet computers as the primary endpoints for connection to the internet; and  (ii)  mobile satellite broadband services.  (C)  Exclusion The term  mobile broadband internet access service  does not include a broadband internet access service provided to an educational institution and made available by such institution for educational purposes to students enrolled at such institution.
 . 
