 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Barriers to Suicide Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Grant program  (a)  In general Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Transportation shall establish a program (in this section referred to as the  Program ) to facilitate the installation of evidence-based suicide deterrents on bridges, including suicide prevention nets and barriers. (b)  Grant authority  In carrying out the Program, the Secretary may make grants on a competitive basis in accordance with this section.  (c)  Eligible recipients  The Secretary may make a grant under the Program to a State or a political subdivision of a State.  (d)  Applications  To be eligible for a grant under the Program, an entity described in subsection (c) shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Secretary determines appropriate.  (e)  Eligible projects  The Secretary may make a grant under the Program only for a project that facilitates the installation on a bridge of—  (1)  a suicide prevention net;   (2)  a suicide prevention barrier; or  (3)  any other evidence-based suicide deterrent that is determined by the Secretary to be appropriate.   (f)  Priority  In making a grant under the Program, the Secretary shall give priority to a project located in an area with a high rate of suicide or other priority characteristics, as determined by the Secretary.  (g)  Federal share  The Federal share of the cost of a project assisted with a grant under the Program may not exceed 80 percent.  (h)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  State The term  State  means each State of the United States, the District of Columbia, each commonwealth, territory, or possession of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe. (2)  Evidence-based suicide deterrent The term  evidence-based suicide deterrent  means a suicide deterrent that demonstrates a rationale based on high-quality research findings or positive evaluation that such deterrent is likely to reduce or prevent suicide, and includes ongoing efforts to examine the effects of such deterrent.  (i)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2020 through 2024. 
 3.  Title 23 amendments  (a)  National highway performance program Section 119(d)(2)(I) of title 23, United States Code, is amended by striking  Highway System.  and adding  Highway System, including installation of safety barriers and nets on bridges of the National Highway System. . (b)  Surface transportation block grants Section 133(b)(4) of title 23, United States Code, is amended by striking  crossings.  and adding  crossings and installation of safety barriers and nets on bridges. .
 4.  Study on effectiveness of suicide prevention nets and barriers for structures other than bridges  (a)  Study  The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study to identify—  (1)  the types of structures, other than bridges, that attract a high number of individuals attempting suicide-by-jumping;  (2)  the characteristics that distinguish structures identified under paragraph (1) from similar structures that do not attract a high number of individuals attempting suicide-by-jumping;  (3)  the types of nets or barriers that are effective at reducing suicide-by-jumping with respect to the structures identified under paragraph (1);  (4)  methods of reducing suicide-by-jumping with respect to the structures identified under paragraph (1) other than nets and barriers;  (5)  quantitative measures of the effectiveness of the nets and barriers identified under paragraph (3);  (6)  quantitative measures of the effectiveness of the additional methods identified under paragraph (4);   (7)  the entities that typically install the nets and barriers identified under paragraph (3); and  (8)  the costs of the nets and barriers identified under paragraph (3).   (b)  Report  Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure and the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report on the results of the study conducted under subsection (a). 
