 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Biking on Long-Distance Trails Act .
 2.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Federal land The term  Federal land  means— (A)  land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary; and  (B)  National Forest System land.   (2)  Long-distance bike trail The term  long-distance bike trail  means a continuous route, consisting of 1 or more trails, that— (A)  is not less than 80 miles in length on Federal land;  (B)  to the maximum extent practicable, makes use of existing trails and roads; and  (C)  may be used for mountain biking, road biking, touring, or gravel biking.   (3)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior.  (4)  Secretary concerned The term  Secretary concerned  means— (A)  the Secretary, with respect to land under the jurisdiction of the Secretary; or  (B)  the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to National Forest System land.  
 3.  Long-distance bike trails on federal land  (a)  Identification of long-Distance trails  The Secretaries concerned shall—  (1)  identify not fewer than 10 long-distance bike trails, consistent with management requirements for the Federal land identified that make use of trails and roads in existence on the date of enactment of this Act; and  (2)  (A)  identify not fewer than 10 areas in which there is an opportunity to develop or complete long-distance bike trails, consistent with the management requirements for the Federal land identified; and  (B)  coordinate with stakeholders on the feasibility of, and identifying any resources necessary for, completing the development of the trails identified under subparagraph (A).  (b)  Maps, signage, and promotional materials  For any long-distance bike trail identified under subsection (a), the Secretary concerned may publish and distribute maps, install signage, and issue promotional materials.  (c)  Report  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretaries concerned, in partnership with interested organizations, shall prepare and publish a report that lists the trails identified under subsection (a).  
