 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Oversight of Independent Review Commission Recommendations Act .
 2.  Report on implementation of certain recommendations of the Independent Review Commission on Sexual Assault in the Military  (a)  Report required  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a report on status of the implementation of the recommendations specified in subsection (c).  (b)  Elements  The report under subsection (a) shall include the following:  (1)  A description of the status of the implementation of each recommendation specified in subsection (c), including—  (A)  whether, how, and to what extent the recommendation has been implemented;  (B)  any rules, regulations, policies, or other guidance that have been issued, revised, changed, or cancelled as a result of the implementation of the recommendation; and  (C)  any impediments to the implementation of the recommendation.  (2)  For each recommendation specified in subsection (c) that has not been fully implemented or superseded by statute as of the date of the report, a plan for the implementation of the recommendation, including identification of—  (A)  intermediate actions, milestone dates, and the expected completion date for implementation of the recommendation; and  (B)  any rules, regulations, policies, or other guidance that are expected to be issued, revised, changed, or cancelled as a result of the implementation of the recommendation.  (3)  Any statutory changes identified as necessary to fully implement the recommendations specified in subsection (c).  (c)  Recommendations specified The recommendations specified in this subsection are the following, as set forth in the report of the Independent Review Commission on Sexual Assault in the Military titled  Hard Truths and the Duty to Change: Recommendations from the Independent Review Commission on Sexual Assault in the Military , and dated July 2, 2021: (1) Each recommendation under the heading  Line of Effort 1: Accountability  as set forth in section III such report. (2) Each recommendation under the heading  Line of Effort 2: Prevention  as set forth in section III such report. (3) Each recommendation under the heading  Line of Effort 3: Climate and Culture  as set forth in section III of such report. (4) Each recommendation under the heading  Line of Effort 4: Victim Care and Support  as set forth in section III of such report. (d)  Appropriate congressional committees defined In this section, the term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (1)  the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate; and  (2)  the Committee on Armed Services and the Committee on Transportation and Infrastructure of the House of Representatives. 
