
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Strengthening and Amplifying Vaccination Efforts to Locally Immunize All Veterans and Every Spouse Act  or the  SAVE LIVES Act .
  2.  Authority of Secretary of Veterans Affairs to furnish COVID–19 vaccine to certain individuals not enrolled in patient enrollment system of Department of Veterans Affairs   (a)  In general  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs may furnish a vaccine for COVID–19 to a covered individual during the COVID–19 public health emergency. 
 (b)  Prioritization  In furnishing vaccines for COVID–19 under the laws administered by the Secretary, the Secretary shall—   (1)  prioritize the vaccination of veterans who are enrolled in the patient enrollment system, veterans who receive hospital care and medical services pursuant to subsection (c)(2) of section 1705 of title 38, United States Code, and accompanying caregivers of such veterans before the vaccination of covered individuals not otherwise described in this paragraph; and 
 (2)  only furnish vaccines for COVID–19 to covered individuals under this section to the extent that such vaccines are available.   (c)  Timing of vaccines provided to spouses of veterans  The Secretary may determine the timing for offering a vaccine for COVID–19 to the spouse of a veteran from the Department of Veterans Affairs.  
 (d)  Vaccine allocation  It is the sense of Congress that, to the extent practicable based on the current national supply chain, the Secretary of Health and Human Services should adjust the allocation for the Department of Veterans Affairs for the vaccine for COVID–19 based on the additional eligibility of covered individuals under this section.    (e)  Definitions  In this section: 
 (1)  Accompanying caregiver The term  accompanying caregiver  means a caregiver described in subparagraph (D), (E), or (F) of paragraph (2) who is accompanying a veteran who is receiving a vaccine for COVID–19 furnished by the Department.   (2)  Covered individual The term  covered individual  means any of the following individuals:
 (A)  A veteran who is not eligible to enroll in the patient enrollment system.   (B)  A veteran who is eligible for care under section 1724 of title 38, United States Code. 
 (C)  A beneficiary under section 1781 of such title.   (D)  A family caregiver of a veteran participating in the program of comprehensive assistance for family caregivers under section 1720G(a) of such title. 
 (E)  A caregiver of a veteran participating in the program of general caregiver support services under section 1720G(b) of such title.   (F)  A caregiver of a veteran participating in the Medical Foster Home Program, Bowel and Bladder Program, Home Based Primary Care Program, or Veteran Directed Care Program of the Department of Veterans Affairs. 
 (G)  A spouse of a veteran.   (3)  Covered public health emergency The term  covered public health emergency  means an emergency with respect to COVID–19 declared by a Federal, State, or local authority.
 (4)  COVID–19 The term  COVID–19  means the coronavirus disease 2019.   (5)  Patient enrollment system The term  patient enrollment system  means the system of annual patient enrollment of the Department of Veterans Affairs established and operated under section 1705(a) of title 38, United States Code.
 (6)  Veteran The term  veteran  has the meaning given that term in section 101(2) of title 38, United States Code.
 