 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Higher Education Research Protection Act of 2021 .
 2.  Establishment of Higher Education Initiative  (a)  In general  Chapter 33  of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 540D.  Higher Education Initiative  (a)  In general There is established within the Office of Private Sector of the Intelligence Branch of the Federal Bureau of Investigation a Higher Education Initiative, which shall be headed by the Assistant Director of the Office of Private Sector (in this Act referred to as  the Assistant Director ). (b)  Duties  (1)  Assistant Director duties  The Assistant Director shall investigate and report to the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation any suspected incidents of individuals participating in federally funded research as agents of a foreign government in institutions of higher education and National Academies.  (2)  Director duties  The Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation shall instruct Federal Bureau of Investigation field offices to conduct proactive outreach to institutions of higher education and National Academies within the office’s area of responsibility.  (c)  Hiring  The Attorney General, acting through the Director of the Federal Bureau of Investigation, shall hire 56 investigative agents to carry out this section.  (d)  Sunset provision The Higher Education Initiative established under subsection (a) shall terminate on the date that is ten years after the date of the enactment of the  Higher Education Research Protection Act of 2021 .  (e)  Definition  In this section:  (1)  Foreign government The term  foreign government  includes the People’s Republic of China or any component thereof, including the Chinese Communist Party, the Central Committee of the Communist Party of China, the Central Military Commission of China, the Chinese People’s Political Consultative Conference, the National People’s Congress of China, or the State Council of China. (2)  Higher Education The term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001(a) ). (3)  National Academies The term  National Academies  means the National Academies of Science, Engineering, and Medicine. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections for  chapter 33  of title 28, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 540D. Higher Education Initiative.  . 
