 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  EDUCATORS for America Act .
 2.  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1)  Despite an increased need for prekindergarten through grade 12 teachers, the number of students completing bachelor’s degrees in education has been in decline over the last 2 decades.  (2)  Pay is by far the reason that undergraduates cite most often for not pursuing teaching as a career. Pay was named as such a reason by 72 percent of respondents in a large 2018 survey of prospective college students.  (3)  Because they earn less than other bachelor’s degree recipients, teachers face particular challenges repaying student loans. Estimated payments on the average amount education graduates have borrowed is equivalent to 9 percent of the average starting teacher salary, well in excess of the 7 percent threshold recommended by economists as affordable for borrowers at that income level.  (4)  The number of students earning undergraduate and graduate degrees in the high-demand specialties of mathematics, science, and foreign language education are in decline and the numbers earning degrees in special education and teaching English as a second language are insufficient to meet demand in many localities.  (5)  Prior to COVID–19, the number of institutions offering degrees in education was stable, but the number with small programs was on the rise. One-third of the 1,500 institutions that award bachelor’s and master’s degrees in education granted 30 or fewer such degrees in 2019.  (6)  An October 2020 survey of American Association of Colleges for Teacher Education members, which includes 700 schools, colleges, and departments of education at public and private 4-year colleges and universities, revealed that nearly 60 percent have experienced a decline in undergraduate enrollment due to COVID–19, 83 percent have had budget cuts, and half have reduced staffing. The Association predicts that, absent additional support, a sizable number of educator preparation programs will close, eliminating needed capacity to produce the profession-ready teachers that the Nation needs.   (7) A 2015 Government Accountability Office analysis showed that only 19 percent of students who were eligible for the Federal Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education Grant program (referred to as  TEACH Grants ) in the 2013–2014 academic year utilized this program, yet the cost of college remains a barrier for many students who seek to become teachers. Institutions like the University of Northern Iowa have successfully utilized TEACH Grants for 57 percent of its TEACH Grant-eligible teacher candidates, with over one thousand moving into teaching positions in high-need fields in high-need schools.  (8) Only 22 percent of educators feel they are  very prepared  to teach social and emotional learning in classrooms, and 51 percent report that the level of social and emotional learning professional development offered at their school is not sufficient.  (9)  Our Nation’s schools are experiencing a severe diversity gap that negatively impacts student achievement and school culture. Fifty percent of current students are from minority groups while only 18 percent of teachers are from such groups, according to a 2016 study by the Brookings Institution.   (10)  A 2016 report conducted by the Department of Education shows that teachers of color tend to provide more culturally relevant teaching and better understand the situations that students of color may face. These factors help develop trusting teacher-student relationships. Researchers from Vanderbilt University also found that greater racial and ethnic diversity among school principals benefits students, especially students of color.  (11)  Research shows that increasing diversity in the teaching profession can have positive impacts on student educational experiences and outcomes. Students of color demonstrate greater academic achievement and social-emotional development in classes with teachers of color. Studies also suggest that all students, including White students, benefit from having teachers of color because they bring distinctive knowledge, experiences, and role modeling to the student body as a whole.  (12)  Effective school leadership is second only to direct classroom instruction among school-based factors in raising student achievement, and principal impact is greatest in low-achieving, high-poverty, and minority schools.  (13)  Principals improve teaching and learning through their ability—  (A)  to shape a vision of academic success for all students;   (B)  to create a safe and supportive school climate;   (C)  to cultivate leadership among teachers and other school staff;   (D)  to improve instruction; and   (E)  to manage people, data, and processes to foster school improvement.  (14)  Recent research from the Wallace Foundation on principals’ impact on students and schools notes that it is difficult to envision a higher return on investment in kindergarten through grade 12 education than the cultivation of high-quality school leadership.  (15)  In the 2015–2016 school year, only 22 percent of public school principals were individuals of color, including 11 percent who identified as Black and 8 percent who identified as Hispanic.  (16)  Minority teachers, school leaders, and other educators can also serve as cultural ambassadors who help students feel more welcome at school or as role models. 
 3.  Educator Quality Enhancement Title II of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1021 et seq. ) is amended to read as follows:  II  Educator quality enhancement  200.  Purposes; Definitions  (a)  Purposes  The purposes of this title are to—  (1)  build the capacity of educator preparation programs to ensure that all students have access to diverse, profession-ready educators;  (2)  provide incentives to individuals to enroll in and complete high-quality educator preparation programs in high-need fields at the baccalaureate or graduate levels at institutions of higher education, particularly to individuals who belong to groups that are currently underrepresented in the education profession;  (3)  authorize investments in higher education educator preparation programs along with critical State and local partners to support and expand promising and successful practices; and  (4)  create mechanisms to integrate innovations in the preparation of profession-ready educators to meet the ever changing needs of students and schools.  (b)  Definitions  In this title:  (1)  Arts and sciences The term  arts and sciences  means— (A)  when referring to an organizational unit of an institution of higher education, any academic unit that offers one or more academic majors in disciplines or content areas corresponding to the academic subject matter areas in which teachers provide instruction; and  (B)  when referring to a specific academic subject area, the disciplines or content areas in which academic majors are offered by the arts and sciences organizational unit.  (2)  Certification or licensure The term  certification or licensure  means State requirements for certification or licensure to teach in that State, and may include the following: (A)  A regular or standard State certificate or advanced professional certificate.  (B)  A probationary certificate.  (C)  A temporary or provisional certificate.  (D)  A waiver or emergency certificate.  (3)  Children from low-income families The term  children from low-income families  means children counted under section 1124(c)(1)(A) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. (4)  Early childhood educator The term  early childhood educator  means an individual with primary responsibility for the education of children in an early childhood education program. (5)  Early childhood education program The term  early childhood education program  means a public education program serving children from birth through age 8, and may include a Head Start program or an Early Head Start program carried out under the Head Start Act ( 42 U.S.C. 9831 et seq. ), including a migrant or seasonal Head Start program, an Indian Head Start program, or a Head Start program or an Early Head Start program that also receives State funding or a public preschool program.  (6)  Educational service agency The term  educational service agency  has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. (7)  Educator The term  educator  means a teacher, principal, school leader, specialized instructional support personnel, or other staff member who provides or directly supports instruction, such as a school librarian, or counselor.  (8)  Educator preparation program The term  educator preparation program  means a program that leads to a regular or standard State certificate or advanced professional certificate for an educator.  (9)  Eligible partnership The term  eligible partnership  means an entity that— (A)  includes—  (i)  a high-need local educational agency;  (ii)  (I)  a high-need school or a consortium of high-need schools served by the high-need local educational agency; or  (II)  as appropriate, a high-need early childhood education program;  (iii)  a partner institution; and  (iv)  a school, department, or program of education within such partner institution, which may include an existing teacher professional development program with demonstrated outcomes within a four-year institution of higher education that provides intensive and sustained collaboration between faculty and local educational agencies consistent with the requirements of this title; and  (B)  may include any of the following:  (i)  The Governor of the State.  (ii)  The State educational agency.  (iii)  The State board of education.  (iv)  The State agency for higher education.  (v)  A business.  (vi)  A public or private nonprofit educational organization.  (vii)  An educational service agency.  (viii)  A teacher organization.  (ix)  A school leader organization.  (x)  An organization representing specialized instructional support personnel.   (xi)  A high-performing local educational agency, or a consortium of such local educational agencies, that can serve as a resource to the partnership.  (xii)  A charter school (as defined in section 4310 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965).  (xiii)  A school or department of arts and sciences within the partner institution.  (xiv)  A school or department within the partner institution that focuses on psychology and human development.  (xv)  A school or department within the partner institution with comparable expertise in the disciplines of teaching, learning, and child and adolescent development.  (xvi)  A public or nonprofit entity operating a program that provides alternative routes to State certification of teachers.  (10)  English learner The term  English learner  has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.  (11)  Evidence-based The term  evidence-based  has the meaning given that term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. (12)  Evidence of student learning The term  evidence of student learning  means multiple measures of student learning that include the following: (A)  Valid and reliable student assessment data, which may include data—  (i)  based on—  (I)  student learning gains on State student academic assessments under section 1111(b)(2) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965; or  (II)  student academic achievement assessments used at the national, State, or local educational agency level, where available and appropriate for the curriculum and students taught;  (ii)  from classroom-based formative assessments;  (iii)  from classroom-based summative assessments; and  (iv)  from objective performance-based assessments.  (B)  Not less than one of the following additional measures:  (i)  Student work, including measures of performance criteria and evidence of student growth.  (ii)  Teacher-generated information about student goals and growth.  (iii)  Parent or caregiver feedback about student goals and growth.  (iv)  Student feedback about learning and teaching supports.  (v)  Assessments of effective engagement and self-efficacy.  (vi)  Other appropriate measures, as determined by the State.  (13)  High-need early childhood education program The term  high-need early childhood education program  means an early childhood education program serving children from low-income families that is located within the geographic area served by a high-need local educational agency. (14)  High-need local educational agency The term  high-need local educational agency  means a local educational agency— (A)  (i)  that serves not fewer than 10,000 low-income children;  (ii)  for which not less than 20 percent of the children served by the agency are low-income children;  (iii)  that meets the eligibility requirements for funding under the Small, Rural School Achievement Program under section 5211(b) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 or the Rural and Low-Income School Program under section 5221(b) of such Act; or  (iv)  that has a percentage of low-income children that is in the highest quartile among such agencies in the State; and  (B)  (i)  for which a majority of schools are identified for comprehensive support and improvement under section 1111(c)(4)(D) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, targeted support and improvement under section 1111(d)(2) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, or additional targeted support under section 1111(d)(2)(C) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965;  (ii)  for which 1 or more schools served by the agency has a high teacher turnover rate or a high percentage of teachers with emergency, provisional, or temporary certification or licensure; or  (iii)  for which there is a high percentage of positions in State-identified areas of teacher or school leader shortage, including in special education, English language instruction, science, technology, engineering, mathematics, and career and technical education.  (15)  High-need school  (A)  In general The term  high-need school  means a school that, based on the most recent data available, meets one or both of the following: (i)  The school is in the highest quartile of schools in a ranking of all schools served by a local educational agency, ranked in descending order by percentage of students from low-income families enrolled in such schools, as determined by the local educational agency based on one of the following measures of poverty:  (I)  The percentage of students aged 5 through 17 in poverty counted in the most recent census data approved by the Secretary.  (II)  The percentage of students eligible for a free or reduced price school lunch under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act.  (III)  The percentage of students in families receiving assistance under the State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act.  (IV)  The percentage of students eligible to receive medical assistance under the Medicaid program.  (V)  A composite of two or more of the measures described in subclauses (I) through (IV).  (ii)  In the case of—  (I)  an elementary school, the school serves students not less than 60 percent of whom are eligible for a free or reduced price school lunch under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act; or  (II)  any other school that is not an elementary school, the other school serves students not less than 45 percent of whom are eligible for a free or reduced price school lunch under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act.  (B)  Special rule  (i)  Designation by the secretary  The Secretary may, upon approval of an application submitted by an eligible partnership seeking a grant under this title, designate a school that does not qualify as a high-need school under subparagraph (A) as a high-need school for the purpose of this title. The Secretary shall base the approval of an application for designation of a school under this clause on a consideration of the information required under clause (ii), and may also take into account other information submitted by the eligible partnership.  (ii)  Application requirements  An application for designation of a school under clause (i) shall include—  (I)  the number and percentage of students attending such school who are—  (aa)  aged 5 through 17 in poverty counted in the most recent census data approved by the Secretary;  (bb)  eligible for a free or reduced price school lunch under the Richard B. Russell National School Lunch Act;  (cc)  in families receiving assistance under the State program funded under part A of title IV of the Social Security Act; or  (dd)  eligible to receive medical assistance under the Medicaid program;  (II)  information about the student academic achievement of students at such school; and  (III)  for a secondary school, the graduation rate for such school.  (16)  Induction program The term  induction program  means a formalized program for new educators during not less than the educators’ first 2 years in the profession that is designed to provide support for, and improve the professional performance and advance the retention in the field of, beginning educators. Such program shall promote effective teaching skills, instructional leadership skills, and profession-readiness for educators and shall include the following components: (A)  High-quality mentoring.  (B)  Periodic, structured time for collaboration with educators in the same department or field, including mentor teachers, as well as time for information-sharing among teachers, principals, administrators, other appropriate instructional staff, and participating faculty in the partner institution.  (C)  The application of evidence-based practice on instructional practices.  (D)  Opportunities for new educators to draw directly on the expertise of mentors, faculty, and researchers to support the integration of evidence-based practice and research with practice.  (E)  The development of skills in instructional and behavioral interventions derived from evidence-based practice and, where applicable, research.  (F)  Faculty who—  (i)  model the integration of research and practice in instruction;  (ii)  model personalized instruction; and  (iii)  assist new educators with the effective use and integration of technology in instruction.  (G)  Interdisciplinary collaboration among exemplary educators, faculty, researchers, and other staff who prepare new educators with respect to the learning process and the assessment of learning.  (H)  Assistance with the understanding of evidence of student learning and the applicability of such evidence in classroom instruction.  (I)  The development of skills to implement and support evidence-based practices that create a positive and inclusive school culture and climate.  (J)  Regular and structured observation and evaluation of new educators by multiple evaluators, using valid and reliable measures of teaching skills, instructional leadership skills, and profession-readiness.  (17)  Institution of higher education The term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given that term in section 101(a).  (18)  Parent The term  parent  has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. (19)  Partner institution The term  partner institution  means an institution of higher education, which may include a 2-year institution of higher education offering a dual program with a 4-year institution of higher education, participating in an eligible partnership that has a teacher preparation program that— (A)  has a record of preparing profession-ready educators;  (B)  is approved by the State to offer an educator preparation program; and   (C)  is not low-performing, as determined by the State.  (20)  Professional development The term  professional development  has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. (21)  Profession-ready The term  profession-ready — (A)  when used with respect to a principal, means a principal who—  (i)  has an advanced degree, or other appropriate credential;  (ii)  has completed a principal preparation process and is fully certified and licensed by the State in which the principal is employed;  (iii)  has demonstrated instructional leadership, including the ability to collect, analyze, and use data on evidence of student learning and evidence of classroom practice;  (iv)  has demonstrated proficiency in professionally recognized leadership standards, such as through—  (I)  a performance assessment;  (II)  completion of a residency program; or  (III)  other measures of leadership, as determined by the State;  (v)  has demonstrated the ability to work with students who are culturally and linguistically diverse;   (vi)  has demonstrated skill as an instructional leader; and   (vii)  has demonstrated proficiency in the use of instructional technology, assistive technology, and the application of technology to create equity and access for all students;  (B)  when used with respect to a teacher, means a teacher who—  (i)  has completed a teacher preparation program and has a certification or licensure described in paragraph (2)(A) for the State in which the teacher teaches;  (ii)  has demonstrated content knowledge in the subject or subjects the teacher teaches;  (iii)  has demonstrated the ability to work with students who are culturally and linguistically diverse; and  (iv)  has demonstrated teaching skills, such as through—  (I)  a teacher performance assessment; or  (II)  other measures of teaching skills, as determined by the State; and  (C)  when used with respect to any other educator not described in subparagraphs (A) or (B), means an educator who has completed an appropriate preparation program and has a certification or licensure described in paragraph (2)(A) for the State in which the educator is employed.  (22)  School leader residency program The term  school leader residency program  has the meaning given that term in section 2002 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. (23)  Social and emotional learning The term  social and emotional learning  means the process through which all young people and adults acquire and apply the knowledge, skills, and attitudes to develop healthy identities, manage emotions, achieve personal and collective goals, empathize with others, establish and maintain supportive relationships, and make responsible and caring decisions.  (24)  Specialized instructional support personnel The term  specialized instructional support personnel  has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965.  (25)  Teacher mentoring The term  teacher mentoring  means the mentoring of new or prospective teachers through a program that— (A)  includes clear criteria for the selection of teacher mentors who will provide role model relationships for mentees, which criteria shall be developed by the eligible partnership and based on measures of teacher effectiveness;  (B)  provides evidence-based training for such mentors, including instructional strategies for literacy instruction and classroom management (including approaches that improve the schoolwide climate for learning, which may include positive behavioral interventions and supports and social and emotional learning);  (C)  provides regular and ongoing opportunities for mentors and mentees to observe each other's teaching methods in classroom settings during the day in a high-need school in the high-need local educational agency in the eligible partnership;  (D)  provides paid release time for mentors, as applicable;  (E)  provides mentoring to each mentee by a colleague who teaches in the same field, grade, or subject as the mentee;  (F)  promotes evidence-based research on—  (i)  teaching and learning;  (ii)  assessment of student learning;  (iii)  the development of teaching skills through the use of instructional and behavioral interventions; and  (iv)  the improvement of the mentees' capacity to measurably advance student learning;  (G)  integrates technology effectively into curricula and instruction, including technology consistent with the principles of universal design for learning and technology to collect, manage, and analyze data to improve teaching and learning for the purpose of improving student learning outcomes; and  (H)  includes—  (i)  common planning time or regularly scheduled collaboration for the mentor and mentee; and  (ii)  joint professional development opportunities.  (26)  Teacher residency program The term  teacher residency program  has the meaning given that term in section 2002 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965. (27)  Teaching skills The term  teaching skills  means skills that enable a teacher to— (A)  increase student learning, achievement, and the ability to apply knowledge;  (B)  convey and explain academic subject matter;  (C)  teach higher-order analytical, evaluation, problem-solving, and communication skills;  (D)  employ strategies grounded in the disciplines of teaching and learning that—  (i)  are based on evidence, practice, and research, where applicable, related to teaching and learning;  (ii)  are specific to academic subject matter; and  (iii)  focus on the identification of students' specific learning needs, particularly students with disabilities, students who are English learners, students who are gifted and talented, and students with low literacy levels, and the tailoring of academic instruction to such needs;  (E)  design and conduct an ongoing assessment of evidence of student learning, which may include the use of formative or diagnostic assessments, performance-based assessments, project-based assessments, or portfolio assessments, that measures higher-order thinking skills (including application, analysis, synthesis, and evaluation) and use this information to inform and personalize instruction;  (F)  support the social, emotional, and academic achievement of all students, including by effectively creating an inclusive classroom environment, and implementing positive behavioral interventions, trauma-informed care, and other support strategies that enhance student motivation and engagement;  (G)  incorporate the principles of universal design for learning;   (H)  integrate technology effectively into curricula and instruction, including technology consistent with the principles of universal design for learning and technology to collect, manage, and analyze data to improve teaching and learning for the purpose of improving student learning outcomes;  (I)  communicate and work with parents, and involve parents in their children's education; and  (J)  use, in the case of an early childhood educator, age-appropriate and developmentally appropriate strategies and practices for children in early childhood education programs.  (28)  Teacher performance assessment The term  teacher performance assessment  means a pre-service assessment used to measure teacher performance that is approved by the State and is— (A)  based on professional teaching standards;  (B)  used to measure the effectiveness of a teacher's—  (i)  curriculum planning;  (ii)  instruction of students, including appropriate plans and modifications for students who are English learners and students who are children with disabilities;  (iii)  assessment of students, including analysis of evidence of student learning; and  (iv)  ability to advance student learning;  (C)  validated based on professional assessment standards;  (D)  reliably scored by trained evaluators, with appropriate oversight of the process to ensure consistency; and  (E)  used to support continuous improvement of educator practice.  (29)  Teacher preparation entity The term  teacher preparation entity  means an institution of higher education, a nonprofit organization, or an organization that is approved by the State to prepare teachers to be effective in the classroom. (30)  Teacher preparation program The term  teacher preparation program  means a program offered by a teacher preparation entity that leads to a specific State teacher certification. 
 A  Grants to States for strengthening educator preparation  201.  Allotments to States  (a)  Program authorized  (1)  Reservation of Funds  From the total amount appropriated to carry out this part for a fiscal year, the Secretary shall reserve—  (A)  one-half of 1 percent for allotments for the outlying areas (as defined in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965) to carry out this part, to be distributed among those outlying areas on the basis of their relative need, as determined by the Secretary, in accordance with the purpose of this part; and  (B)  one-half of 1 percent for the Secretary of the Interior to carry out this part for schools operated or funded by the Bureau of Indian Education.  (2)  Formula  From amounts made available to carry out this part and not reserved under paragraph (1), the Secretary shall allot funds to each State having an approved application under this section to carry out this part in proportion to each such State’s share of funding under part A of title I of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, except that no State shall receive less than 0.5 percent of the amounts made available to carry out this paragraph.   (3)  State Notwithstanding section 103, in this section the term  State  means the several States of the United States, the Commonwealth of Puerto Rico, and the District of Columbia. (4)  Uses of funds  (A)  Development of the strategic plan  Each State may use an amount equal to not more than 30 percent of the amount allotted to the State, for a period not to exceed 1 year, to carry out activities related to the development of the strategic plan, as described in subsection (c).  (B)  Subsequent years  For each year following the first year after receiving an allotment under this section, the State—  (i)  shall use not less than 95 percent of the amount allotted to the State under this section to carry out activities described in subsection (d); and  (ii)  may use not more than 5 percent of the amounts allotted to the State under this section for administration and accountability and reporting requirements.  (b)  Application  Each State desiring an allotment under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may require. Each such application shall contain—  (1)  the identification of a State agency to lead the grant, which shall be determined by the Governor in consultation with the State educational agency;  (2)  a description of the certification or licensing requirements with respect to each form of certification or licensure described in section 200(b)(2) for early childhood, elementary school, and secondary school teachers in the State at the time of the application;  (3)  a description of the certification or licensing requirements with respect to each form of certification or licensure described in section 200(b)(2) for specialized instructional support personnel;   (4)  a description of the State authorization requirements for teacher preparation programs (including alternate and traditional routes to certification) and the number of teacher preparation programs authorized in the State (including alternative and traditional routes to certification);  (5)  a description of the teacher preparation needs assessment that the State will conduct, including how the State will assess—  (A)  teacher workforce needs for public preschool, elementary, and secondary schools in the State;  (B)  the number and percentage of teachers of record who are not profession-ready as described in section 200(b)(20)(B);   (C)  the demographics of the student population and the demographics of the educator workforce, and the extent to which the educator workforce reflects the demographics of the student population;  (D)  high-need fields, high-need schools, and high-need local educational agencies;  (E)  the State's educator equity plan described in section 1111(g)(1)(B) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965;  (F)  the extent to which currently authorized teacher preparation programs in the State are producing profession-ready candidates; and  (G)  the capacity of programs that are authorized in the State, as of the time of the application, to meet the State's teacher workforce needs, including the capacity of—  (i)  pipeline programs, such as associate degree to baccalaureate transfer pathway programs with community colleges;  (ii)  grow your own  programs that provide pathways to standard teacher certification through partnerships between local educational agencies, institutions of higher education, and community-based organizations to recruit and prepare community members to become teachers in local schools; (iii)  career awareness programs, including career and technical education and other pathways, in public schools; and  (iv)  programs to support the career progression of educators, including retention, leadership opportunities, and professional development;  (6)  a description of the school leader, principal, and other educator preparation needs assessment that the State will conduct, including how the State will assess—  (A)  the principal and other educator workforce needs for public preschools and elementary and secondary schools in the State;  (B)  high-need positions, high-need schools, and high-need local educational agencies;  (C)  the extent to which authorized educator preparation programs in the State, as of the time of the application, are producing profession-ready candidates; and  (D)  the capacity of programs authorized in the State, as of the time of the application, to meet the State's principal and other educator needs, including meeting nationally recognized ratios for specialized instructional support personnel in schools, where applicable; and  (7)  a timeline for the State's activities to develop a strategic plan, including a timeline for stakeholder engagement with administrators of institutions of higher education, elementary school and secondary school principals and administrators, educator preparation programs, teachers, specialized instructional support personnel, parents, students, civil rights organizations, community-based organizations, and workforce development programs.  (c)  Development of a strategic plan  During the first year after receiving an allotment under this section, a State may use not more than 30 percent of the funds allotted to conduct the needs assessments described in paragraphs (5) and (6) of subsection (b) and develop a strategic plan for the State to improve educator preparation programs to address the needs identified in paragraphs (5) and (6) of subsection (b).   (d)  Submission of strategic plan  Not later than 1 year after receiving an allotment under this section, each State shall submit a strategic plan to the Secretary, which shall contain the following information:  (1)  The State's goals relating to educator preparation, supporting quantitative and qualitative evidence for those goals, and intermediate and long-term implementation timelines.   (2)  The results of the needs assessments described in paragraphs (5) and (6) of subsection (b).   (3)  The State's plan for meeting the educator workforce needs in the State, including how the State will prioritize institutions of higher education with the greatest share of prospective educators, institutions that enroll the highest percentage of prospective educators from underrepresented groups, and institutions of higher education with the highest placement of educators in the State.  (4)  The State’s plan for removing barriers to an inclusive and equitable workforce that supports the needs of populations that are underrepresented in the field of education, including teachers of color, first generation college students, and teachers with disabilities, including recruitment, preparation, and retention.   (e)  Authorized activities  A State shall use funds allotted under this section to implement the strategic plan submitted under subsection (d), which may include the following activities:   (1)  Strengthening and professionalizing educator certification and licensure, and other credentialing, so that it aligns with evidence-based practices and high professional standards.  (2)  Developing and implementing an equitable and evidence-based State approval system for alternative route program providers and programs and traditional and alternative route programs at institutions of higher education.  (3)  Supporting the implementation of evidence-based performance assessments for teacher licensure or certification in the State.  (4)  Regularly assessing the workforce needs of prekindergarten through grade 12 educators across the State, including the diversity of the workforce, and providing that information to institutions of higher education that prepare educators in the State.  (5)  Providing transparency to the public as to how authorized educator preparation programs are meeting professional standards and requirements.  (6)  Providing subgrants to partner institutions, consortia of partner institutions, or eligible partnerships, to enable those institutions and partnerships to carry out activities related to the strategic plan described in subsection (d), including—  (A)  developing and offering induction, mentoring, or professional and leadership coaching for all novice teachers and principals in a high-need local educational agency, which shall be provided by faculty or staff at the institution of higher education and teachers and school leaders;  (B)  developing and offering professional development that brings research to practice for educators in schools of district partners;   (C)  developing and offering second endorsement coursework;  (D)  creating and expanding dual certification programs in special education and general education;  (E)  developing and offering ‘grow your own’ programs;  (F)  developing or strengthening career ladder positions for educators, such as teacher leaders, with certification requirements and coursework leading to certification, which may include nationally recognized, standards-based advanced certification;  (G) designing and implementing statewide pre-service residencies for teacher and principal candidates using the model described in section 202(e) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act ; (H)  developing and implementing a statewide best practices network for the preparation of profession-ready educators; and  (I)  creating or expanding teaching fellows programs whereby individuals preparing to be teachers receive tuition waivers for use in comprehensive preparation provided by a teacher preparation program that includes extensive clinical experience that is tightly aligned to coursework, before becoming the teacher of record, in exchange for teaching in one of the identified workforce need areas in the State for a period of years.  (f)  Annual report on the implementation of the strategic plan  Each State receiving an allotment under this section shall make publicly available a report, on an annual basis, on the implementation of the strategic plan submitted under subsection (d).   (g)  Maintenance of effort  (1)  In General  A State shall provide for activities described in this section in such State, an amount which is equal to or greater than the average amount provided for such activities by such State during the 3 most recent preceding fiscal years for which satisfactory data are available.  (2)  Waiver  Notwithstanding paragraph (1), the Secretary may waive the requirements of this subsection if the Secretary determines that a waiver would be equitable due to—  (A)  exceptional or uncontrollable circumstances, such as a natural disaster or a change in the organizational structure of the State; or  (B)  a precipitous decline in the financial resources of the State.  (h)  State maintenance of equity As a condition of receiving an allotment under this section, a State shall meet the maintenance of equity requirements in section 2004(b) of the of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 ( Public Law 117–2 ).  (i)  Supplement, not supplant  Funds made available under this section shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, other Federal, State, and local funds that would otherwise be expended to carry out activities under this section.  
 202.  Accountability for equitable access to profession-ready teachers  (a)  Institutional and program annual reports  (1)  Annual reporting  Each teacher preparation entity approved to operate teacher preparation programs in the State and that receives or enrolls students receiving Federal assistance shall report annually to the State and the general public, in a uniform and comprehensible manner that conforms with the definitions and methods established by the Secretary, the following:   (A)  Pass rates  For the most recent year for which the information is available for each teacher preparation program offered by the teacher preparation entity, the following:   (i)  Except as provided in clause (ii), for those students who took the assessments used for teacher certification or licensure by the State in which the entity is located and are enrolled in the teacher preparation program, the percentage of such students who passed such assessment.  (ii)  In the case of an entity that requires a valid and reliable teacher performance assessment in order to complete the preparation program, the entity may submit in lieu of the information described in clause (i) the pass rate of students taking the teacher performance assessment.   (B)  Entity information  A description of the following:  (i)  The number of students in the entity (disaggregated by race, ethnicity, sex, and disability status).  (ii)  The number of hours of supervised clinical preparation required for each program.  (iii)  The total number of students who have completed programs for certification or licensure (disaggregated by subject area and by race, ethnicity, sex, and disability status, except that such disaggregation, consistent with applicable privacy laws, shall not be required in a case in which the result would reveal personally identifiable information about an individual student).  (iv)  The criteria for admission into the program.  (v)  The number of full-time equivalent faculty, adjunct faculty, and students in supervised clinical experience.   (C)  Accreditation  Whether the program or entity is accredited by a specialized accrediting agency recognized by the Secretary for accreditation of professional teacher education programs.   (D)  Designation as low-performing  Which programs (if any) offered by the entity have been designated as low-performing by the State under section 207(a).   (b)  Annual State report on teacher preparation  (1)  In general  Each State that receives funds under this part shall provide to the Secretary, and make widely available to the general public, in a uniform and comprehensible manner that conforms with the definitions and methods established by the Secretary, an annual State report on educator preparation in the State, both for traditional teacher preparation programs and for alternative routes to State certification or licensure programs, which shall include not less than the following:  (A)  A description of the teacher certification and licensure assessments, including teacher performance assessments, and any other certification and licensure requirements, used by the State, including evidence on validity and reliability of those assessments and the methods used to determine performance standards.  (B)  The standards and criteria that prospective teachers must meet to—  (i)  attain certification or licensure described under each of subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) of section 200(b)(2); and  (ii)  be certified or licensed to teach particular academic subjects, areas, or grades within the State.  (C)  (i)  The number of certifications or licensures described under each of subparagraphs (A), (B), (C), and (D) of section 200(b)(2) issued by the State, disaggregated by grade and subject area.  (ii)  The number and percentage of teachers who received a certification or licensure described in section 200(b)(2)(A) and who did not complete any formal teacher preparation program, but have received such certification or licensure by alternative means such as passing a test, disaggregated by field.   (iii)  The number and percentage of teachers of record who are not profession-ready, disaggregated by field.  (D)  (i)  Except as provided in clause (ii), for each of the assessments used by the State for teacher certification or licensure, the pass rates of such assessments for individuals having completed each teacher preparation entity in the State and for all such entities, disaggregated by subject area, race, ethnicity, sex, and disability status, except that such disaggregation shall not be required in a case in which the result would reveal personally identifiable information about an individual.  (ii)  In the case of a State that has implemented a valid and reliable teacher performance assessment, the State may submit in lieu of the information described in clause (i) the pass rate of students taking the teacher performance assessment, disaggregated by subject area, race, ethnicity, sex, and disability status, except that such disaggregation shall not be required in a case in which the result would reveal personally identifiable information about an individual student.  (E)  For each teacher preparation program in the State the following:  (i)  The number of students in the program (disaggregated by race, ethnicity, sex, and disability status).  (ii)  The number of hours of supervised clinical preparation required.  (iii)  Whether such program has been identified as low-performing and during which years of operation.  (F)  A description of alternative routes to teacher certification or licensure in the State (including any such routes operated by entities that are not institutions of higher education), if any, including, for each of the assessments used by the State for teacher certification or licensure, the percentage of individuals participating in such routes, or who have completed such routes during the two-year period preceding the date for which the determination is made, who passed each such assessment.  (G)  The percentage of candidates completing programs in each field, including special education, who use alternate routes compared to those who complete traditional programs.  (H)  A description of the State’s criteria for assessing the performance of teacher preparation programs within institutions of higher education in the State. Such criteria shall include indicators of the academic content knowledge and teaching skills of students enrolled in such programs.  (I)  For each teacher preparation program in the State—  (i)  the number of students in the program, disaggregated by race, ethnicity, sex, and disability status (except that such disaggregation shall not be required in a case in which the number of students in a category would reveal personally identifiable information about an individual student); and  (ii)  the range and average number of hours of supervised clinical experience required for those in the program.  (J)  For the State as a whole, and for each teacher preparation entity in the State, the number of teachers prepared, in the aggregate and reported separately by the following:   (i)  Area of certification or licensure.  (ii)  Academic major.  (iii)  Subject area for which the teacher has been prepared to teach.  (iv)  The relationship of the subject area and grade span of teachers graduated by the teacher preparation entity to the teacher workforce needs of the State.   (v)  The percentage of teachers graduated teaching in high-need schools.  (vi)  Race, ethnicity, sex, and disability status.  (K)  A comparison of standard licenses and certifications issued to the areas of identified teacher shortage in the State.   (L)  The capacity of the statewide longitudinal data system to report valid and reliable outcome data on the graduates of teacher preparation entities in the State and where available the results of such data on the following:   (i)  Job placement of program completers within 12 months of graduation.  (ii)  Retention of program completers in teaching after 3 years.  (iii)  Other outcome indicators used by the State, such as average results from teacher evaluations.  (2)  Prohibition against creating a national list  The Secretary shall not create a national list or ranking of States, institutions, or schools using the information provided under this subsection.  (3)  No requirement for reporting on students not residing in the State  Nothing in this section shall require a State to report data on program completers who do not reside in such State.   (c)  Data quality  The Secretary shall prescribe regulations to ensure the reliability, validity, integrity, accuracy, and consistency of the data submitted pursuant to this section.  (d)  Report of the secretary on teacher preparation  (1)  Report  The Secretary shall, until 2025, annually provide to the authorizing committees, and publish and make widely available, a report on teacher qualifications and preparation in the United States, including all the information reported in subparagraphs (A) through (L) of subsection (b)(1).  (2)  Enhanced report  (A)  Recommendations  The Secretary shall instruct the National Center for Education Statistics to convene an expert panel that includes researchers and practitioners to study and make recommendations for revised reporting of teacher qualifications and preparation in the United States. The recommendations shall include suggestions for how to—  (i)  consolidate and streamline reporting across existing Federal and State requirements and Federal data collections to provide a concise and robust set of State and national indicators on the size, diversity, and quality of the teacher workforce and the equitable distribution of profession-ready teachers; and  (ii)  reduce reporting burdens on educator preparation entities, local educational agencies, and States.   (B)  Revised reporting  The Secretary shall publish revised reporting requirements of teacher qualifications and preparation in the United States in the Federal Register with sufficient time for the new reporting requirements to be in place for 2025.   (3)  Special rule  In the case of a teacher preparation program with fewer than ten scores reported on any single initial teacher certification or licensure assessment during an academic year, the Secretary shall collect and publish, and make publicly available, information with respect to an average pass rate on each State certification or licensure assessment taken over a three-year period.  (e)  Coordination  The Secretary, to the extent practicable, shall coordinate the information collected and published under this part among States for individuals who took State teacher certification or licensure assessments in a State other than the State in which the individual received the individual’s most recent degree.  
 203.  State functions  (a)  State assessment  (1)  In general  In order to receive funds under this part, a State shall conduct an assessment to identify low-performing teacher preparation programs in the State and to assist such programs through the provision of technical assistance.  (2)  Provision of low-performing list  Each State described in paragraph (1) shall—   (A)  provide the Secretary with an annual list of low-performing teacher preparation programs;  (B)  report any teacher preparation program that has been closed and the reasons for such closure; and   (C)  describe the criteria determined under paragraph (3) for identifying low performing programs.   (3)  Determination of low-performing programs  The levels of performance and the criteria for meeting those levels for purposes of the assessment under paragraph (1) shall be determined by the State in consultation with a representative group of community stakeholders, including, at a minimum, representatives of leaders and faculty of traditional and alternative route teacher preparation programs, prekindergarten through 12th grade leaders and instructional staff, current teacher candidates participating in traditional and alternative route teacher preparation programs, the State's standards board or other appropriate standards body, and other stakeholders identified by the State. In making such determination, the State shall consider multiple measures and the information reported by teacher preparation entities under section 202.   (b)  Reporting and improvement  In order to receive funds under this part, a State shall—   (1)  report any teacher preparation programs described in subparagraphs (A) or (B) of subsection (a)(2) to the Secretary;   (2)  establish a period of improvement and redesign (as established by the State) for programs identified as low-performing under subsection (a);   (3)  provide programs identified as low-performing with technical assistance for a period of not longer than 5 years; and  (4)  subject low-performing programs that have not improved to the provisions described in subsection (c) (as determined by the State).   (c)  Termination of eligibility  Any teacher preparation program that is low-performing and has not improved for a period of 5 years—   (1)  shall be ineligible for any funding for professional development activities awarded by the Department;   (2)  may not be permitted to provide new awards under subpart 9 of part A of title IV; and   (3)  shall provide transitional support, including remedial services if necessary, for students enrolled in the program in the year prior to such closure.   (d)  Application of the requirements  The requirements of this section shall apply to both traditional teacher preparation programs and alternative routes to State certification or licensure programs.  
 204.  General provisions  (a)  Methods  In complying with sections 202 and 203, the Secretary shall ensure that States and institutions of higher education use fair and equitable methods in reporting and that the reporting methods do not reveal personally identifiable information.  (b)  Special rule  For each State that does not use content assessments as a means of ensuring that all teachers teaching within the State meet the applicable State certification or licensure requirements, including any requirements for certification obtained through alternative routes to certification, in accordance with the State plan submitted or revised under section 1111 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, and that each person employed as a special education teacher in the State who teaches elementary school or secondary school meets the qualifications described in section 612(a)(14)(C) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, the Secretary shall—  (1)  to the extent practicable, collect data comparable to the data required under this part from States, local educational agencies, institutions of higher education, or other entities that administer such assessments to teachers or prospective teachers; and  (2)  notwithstanding any other provision of this part, use such data to carry out requirements of this part related to assessments, pass rates, and scaled scores.  (c)  Release of information to educator preparation programs  (1)  In general  For the purpose of improving educator preparation programs, a State that receives funds under this part, or that participates as a member of a partnership, consortium, or other entity that receives such funds, shall provide to an educator preparation program, upon the request of the educator preparation program, any and all pertinent education-related information that—  (A)  may enable the educator preparation program to evaluate the effectiveness of the program's graduates or the program itself; and  (B)  is possessed, controlled, or accessible by the State.  (2)  Content of information  The information described in paragraph (1)—  (A)  shall include an identification of specific individuals who graduated from the educator preparation program to enable the educator preparation program to evaluate the information provided to the program from the State with the program's own data about the specific courses taken by, and field experiences of, the individual graduates; and  (B)  may include—  (i)  kindergarten through grade 12 academic achievement and demographic data, without revealing personally identifiable information about an individual student, for students who have been taught by graduates of the educator preparation program;   (ii)  teacher effectiveness evaluations for teachers who graduated from the educator preparation program; and  (iii)  survey data on program quality as it relates to the preparedness on different aspects of teaching or school leadership from preparation program completers and principals in schools or superintendents in local educational agencies where completers are placed.  
 205.  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2022 and each of the 5 succeeding fiscal years. 
 B  Grants to institutions  220.  Purposes  The purposes of this part are to—  (1)  expand the pool of profession-ready diverse educators to meet the workforce demands of high-need schools and high-need fields;  (2)  ensure that new teachers, principals, and other educators are profession-ready and prepared to meet the learning and social and emotional needs of a diverse student population in a range of settings, including rural and urban areas;  (3)  strengthen the quality of prospective and new teachers, principals, and other educators by strengthening the preparation of prospective teachers, principals, and other educators and enhancing professional development activities for new teachers, principals, and other educators;  (4)  recruit individuals, particularly individuals from underrepresented populations and individuals from other occupations, to become teachers, principals, and other educators; and  (5)  build and strengthen partnerships between educator preparation programs within institutions of higher education and local educational agencies and high-need schools in order to meet the needs of those agencies and schools staffing needs.  
 221.  Authorization of appropriations  (a)  In General  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this part $500,000,000 for fiscal year 2022 and each of the 5 succeeding fiscal years.   (b)  Minimum appropriations for each subpart  The Secretary shall ensure that not less than 25 percent of the funds appropriated to carry out this part for a fiscal year are allocated for each of subparts 1, 2, and 3 of this part.  
 1  Educator quality partnership grants  222.  Partnership grants  (a)  Program authorized  From amounts made available under section 221, the Secretary is authorized to award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible partnerships, to enable the eligible partnerships to carry out the activities described in subsection (c).  (b)  Application  Each eligible partnership desiring a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require. Each such application shall contain—  (1)  a needs assessment of the partners in the eligible partnership with respect to the preparation, ongoing training, professional development, and retention of general education teachers, special education teachers, multilingual education teachers, principals, other educators (including specialized instructional support personnel), school librarians, and counselors, and, as applicable, early childhood educators;  (2)  a description of the extent to which the program to be carried out with grant funds, as described in subsection (c), will prepare profession-ready educators with strong teaching, leadership, and other professional skills necessary to increase learning and academic achievement;  (3)  a description of how such program will prepare profession-ready teachers, principals, and other educators to understand and use research and data to modify and improve classroom instruction and improve student motivation and engagement;  (4)  a description of—  (A)  how the eligible partnership will coordinate strategies and activities assisted under the grant with other teacher, principal, and other educator preparation or professional development programs, including programs funded under part A of this title, the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, and the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, and through the National Science Foundation;   (B)  how the activities of the partnership will be consistent with State and local innovations and activities, and other education innovations and activities, that promote educator quality, diversity, and student academic achievement; and  (C)  how the eligible partnership will develop strong partnerships between local educational agencies and institutions of higher education within the partnership and community connections (which may include collaboration with teacher and school leader representatives within the local educational agency) to ensure that candidates develop an understanding of the students and families in the communities in which they will be teaching, prepare candidates to teach in those communities, and understand school contexts to address needs in the local educational agency;  (5)  an assessment that describes the resources available to the eligible partnership, including—  (A)  the integration of funds from other related sources;  (B)  the intended use of the grant funds; and  (C)  the commitment of the resources of the partnership to the activities assisted under this section, including financial support, faculty participation, and time commitments, and to the continuation of the activities when the grant ends;  (6)  a description of—  (A)  how the eligible partnership will meet the purposes of this part;  (B)  how the partnership will carry out the activities required under subsection (d), (e) or (f), based on the needs identified in paragraph (1), with the goal of providing a pipeline of diverse profession-ready educators needed by the local educational agency or schools that are part of the eligible partnership;  (C)  if the partnership chooses to use funds under this section for a project or activities under subsection (g), how the partnership will carry out such project or required activities based on the needs identified in paragraph (1), with the goals of meeting the workforce needs of the partner local educational agency or schools that are part of the eligible partnership through the provision of profession-ready diverse educators;  (D)  the partnership's evaluation plan under section 224;  (E)  how the partnership will align the teacher preparation program under subsection (d) with the—  (i)  State early learning standards for early childhood education programs, as appropriate, and with the relevant domains of early childhood development;   (ii)  State academic standards under section 1111(b)(1) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965, established by the State in which the partnership is located; and  (iii)  activities identified under section 2101 and section 2103 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 and where applicable, the school support and improvement activities identified under section 1111(d) of that Act;   (F)  how the partnership will prepare educators to teach and work with students with disabilities, including training related to early identification of students with disabilities and participation as a member of individualized education program teams, as defined in section 614(d)(1)(B) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act;  (G)  how the partnership will prepare educators to teach and work with students who are English learners;  (H)  how the partnership will prepare educators to teach diverse students, including students of different races, ethnicities, language, gender identity or sexual orientation, and students with disabilities; and  (I)  how the partnership will design, implement, or enhance a year-long and evidence-based educator pre-service clinical program component; and  (7)  with respect to the induction program required as part of the activities carried out under this section—  (A)  a description of how the educator preparation program will design and implement an induction program to support all new educators who are prepared by the educator preparation program in the partnership and who are employed in the high-need local educational agency in the partnership, and, to the extent practicable, all new educators who teach in such high-need local educational agency; and  (B)  a description of how higher education faculty involved in the induction program will be able to substantially participate in an early childhood education program or an elementary school or secondary school classroom setting, as applicable.  (c)  Use of Grant Funds  An eligible partnership that receives a grant under this section—  (1)  shall use grant funds to carry out a program for the pre-baccalaureate or post-baccalaureate preparation of teachers under subsection (d), a pre-service principal preparation program under subsection (e), a teaching or principal residency program under subsection (f), or a combination of such programs; and  (2)  may use funds to carry out other educator development programs under subsection (g), based upon the results of the needs assessment in subsection (b)(1).  (d)  Partnership grants for the preparation of teachers  An eligible partnership that receives a grant to carry out a program for the preparation of teachers shall carry out a pre-baccalaureate teacher preparation program or a 5th year initial licensing program that includes all of the following:  (1)  Activities  (A)  In general  Implementing activities, described in subparagraph (B), within each teacher preparation program and, as applicable, each preparation program for early childhood education programs, of the eligible partnership that is assisted under this section, to hold each program accountable for—  (i)  preparing—  (I)  profession-ready teachers; and  (II)  such teachers and, as applicable, early childhood educators, to understand evidence-based research related to teaching, learning, and classroom management, and the applicability of such practice and research, including strategies to incorporate universal design for learning, the effective use of technology, instructional techniques, strategies consistent with the principles of universal design for learning, and core competencies of social and emotional learning, and through positive behavioral interventions and support strategies to improve student achievement; and  (ii)  promoting strong teaching skills and, as applicable, techniques for early childhood educators to improve children's cognitive, social, emotional, and physical development.  (B)  Required activities  The activities described in subparagraph (A) shall include—  (i)  implementing teacher preparation program curriculum changes that improve, evaluate, and assess how well all prospective and new teachers develop teaching skills;  (ii)  using evidence-based research, where applicable, about teaching and learning so that all prospective teachers and, as applicable, early childhood educators—  (I)  understand and can implement evidence-based teaching practices in classroom instruction;  (II)  have knowledge of the scientific basis of how students learn, including the skills to recognize and evaluate student social and emotional competencies and needs;  (III)  possess skills to analyze student academic achievement data and other measures of student learning, and use such data and measures to improve classroom instruction and student engagement;  (IV)  possess teaching skills and an understanding of effective instructional strategies across all applicable content areas that enable general education and special education teachers and early childhood educators to—  (aa)  meet the specific social and emotional learning and academic needs of all students, including students with disabilities, students who are English learners, students who are gifted and talented, students with low literacy levels and, as applicable, children in early childhood education programs;   (bb)  differentiate instruction for such students; and  (cc)  use culturally relevant pedagogy and curricular materials;  (V)  can effectively participate as a member of the individualized education program team, as defined in section 614(d)(1)(B) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act;   (VI)  possess the skills to meet the academic, social, and emotional needs of students and create inclusive and culturally responsive learning environments; and  (VII)  can successfully employ effective strategies for comprehensive literacy instruction (as defined in section 2221(b) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965);  (iii)  ensuring collaboration with departments, programs, or units of a partner institution outside of the teacher preparation program in all academic content areas, as appropriate, to ensure that prospective teachers receive training in both teaching and relevant content areas in order to meet the applicable State requirements to becoming fully certified or licensed as described in section 200(b)(2)(A) and become profession-ready, or with regard to special education teachers, meet the qualifications described in section 612(a)(14)(C) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, which may include training in multiple subjects to teach multiple grade levels as may be needed for individuals preparing to teach in rural communities and for individuals preparing to teach students with disabilities;   (iv)  developing admissions goals and priorities aligned with the hiring objectives of the high-need local educational agency in the eligible partnership, which may include consideration of applicants who reflect the communities in which they will teach as well as consideration of individuals from underrepresented populations in the teaching profession;  (v)  implementing program and curriculum changes, as applicable, to ensure that prospective teachers have the requisite content knowledge, preparation, and degree to teach Advanced Placement or International Baccalaureate courses successfully; and  (vi)  embedding social and emotional competencies into the program and curriculum, as applicable, to ensure that new and prospective teachers have the requisite content knowledge and skills.   (2)  Clinical experience and interaction  Developing or improving a sustained preservice clinical education program to further develop the teaching skills of all prospective teachers and, as applicable, early childhood educators, involved in the program. Such program shall do the following:  (A)  Incorporate year-long opportunities for enrichment, including—  (i)  clinical learning in classrooms in high-need schools served by the high-need local educational agency in the eligible partnership, and identified by the eligible partnership; and  (ii)  closely supervised interaction between prospective teachers and faculty, experienced teachers, principals, other administrators, and school leaders at early childhood education programs (as applicable), elementary schools, or secondary schools, and providing support for such interaction.  (B)  Integrate pedagogy and classroom practice and promote effective teaching skills in academic content areas.  (C)  Provide teacher mentoring.  (D)  Be offered over the course of a program of teacher preparation.  (E)  Be tightly aligned with course work (and may be developed as a fifth year of a teacher preparation program).  (F)  Where feasible, allow prospective teachers to learn to teach in the same local educational agency in which the teachers will work, learning the instructional initiatives and curriculum of that local educational agency.  (G)  As applicable, provide training and experience to enhance the teaching skills of prospective teachers to better prepare such teachers to meet the unique needs of teaching in rural or urban communities.  (H)  Provide support and training for individuals participating in an activity for prospective or new teachers described in this paragraph or paragraph (1) or (3), and for individuals who serve as mentors for such teachers, based on each individual's experience. Such support may include—  (i)  with respect to a prospective teacher or a mentor, release time for such individual's participation;  (ii)  with respect to a faculty member, receiving course workload credit and compensation for time teaching in the eligible partnership's activities; and  (iii)  with respect to a mentor, a stipend, which may include bonus, differential, incentive, or performance pay, based on the mentor’s qualifications and responsibilities.  (3)  Induction programs for new teachers  Creating an induction program for new teachers or, in the case of an early childhood education program, providing mentoring or coaching for new early childhood educators.   (4)  Support and training for participants in early childhood education programs  In the case of an eligible partnership focusing on early childhood educator preparation, implementing initiatives that increase compensation for early childhood educators who attain associate or baccalaureate degrees in early childhood education.  (5)  Teacher recruitment  Developing and implementing effective mechanisms to ensure that the eligible partnership is able to recruit qualified individuals, including individuals from groups that are underrepresented in the education profession, to become teachers who meet the applicable State requirements to be fully certified or licensed as described in section 200(b)(2)(A) and become profession-ready, and with regard to special education teachers, meet the qualifications described in section 612(a)(14)(C) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act, through the activities of the eligible partnership, which may include an emphasis on recruiting into the teaching profession—  (A)  individuals from underrepresented populations;  (B)  individuals to teach in rural communities and teacher shortage areas, including mathematics, science, special education, career and technical education, and the instruction of English learners; and  (C)  professionals from other occupations, former military personnel, and recent college graduates with a record of academic distinction.  (6)  Literacy training  Strengthening the literacy teaching skills of prospective and, as applicable, new elementary school and secondary school teachers—  (A)  to implement comprehensive literacy instruction programs (as defined in section 2221(b) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965);  (B)  to use screening, formative, diagnostic and summative assessments to determine students' literacy levels, difficulties, and growth in order to improve classroom instruction and improve student reading and writing skills;  (C)  to provide individualized, intensive, and targeted literacy instruction for students with deficiencies in literacy skills; and  (D)  to integrate literacy skills in the classroom across subject areas.  (e)  Partnership grants for principal preparation  An eligible partnership receiving a grant to carry out an effective program to prepare profession-ready principals shall carry out a program that includes the following:  (1)  Development of leadership skills with a demonstrated impact on student and school success, including the ability to create a continuous learning environment for teachers, staff, and students.  (2)  Rigorous recruitment and selection criteria for successful educators who have shown potential as leaders.  (3)  Program faculty with prior school leadership experience and deep knowledge of effective leadership practices.  (4)  Comprehensive clinical experiences that are linked to coursework and help principal candidates address context-specific problems and the needs of special population groups, including students who are children with disabilities, English learners, and students from economically disadvantaged families.  (5)  Peer networks.  (6)  Mentoring, supervision, and evaluation of candidates throughout the clinical experience.  (7)  Opportunities for ongoing professional learning and coaching for practicing school leaders.  (f)  Partnership grants for the establishment of teaching and principal residency programs  (1)  In general  An eligible partnership receiving a grant to carry out an effective teaching or principal residency program shall carry out a program that includes the following activities:  (A)  For teaching residency programs  An eligible partnership carrying out a teaching residency program shall carry out both of the following activities:  (i)  Supporting a teaching residency program described in paragraph (2) for high-need schools and in high-need subjects and areas, as determined by the needs of the high-need local educational agency in the partnership.  (ii)  Placing graduates of the teaching residency program in cohorts that facilitate professional collaboration, both among graduates of the residency program and between such graduates and mentor teachers in the receiving school.  (B)  For principal residency programs  An eligible partnership carrying out a principal residency program shall support a program described in paragraph (3) for high-need schools, as determined by the needs of the high-need local educational agency in the partnership.  (2)  Teacher residency programs  (A)  Establishment and design  A teaching residency program under this paragraph shall be a program based upon models of successful teaching residencies that serves as a mechanism to prepare teachers for success in high-need schools in the eligible partnership and shall be designed to include the following characteristics of successful programs:  (i)  The integration of pedagogy, classroom practice, and teacher mentoring.  (ii)  The exposure to principles of child and youth development as well as understanding and applying principles of learning and behavior.  (iii)  Engagement of teaching residents in rigorous graduate-level coursework to earn a master's degree while undertaking supervised clinical preparation.  (iv)  Experience and learning opportunities alongside a trained and experienced mentor teacher—  (I)  whose teaching shall complement the residency program so that school-based clinical practice is tightly aligned with coursework;  (II)  who shall have extra responsibilities as a teacher leader of the teaching residency program, as a mentor for residents, and as a teacher coach during the induction program for new teachers, and for establishing, within the program, a learning community in which all individuals are expected to continually improve their capacity to advance student learning; and  (III)  who may be relieved from teaching duties or may be offered a stipend as a result of such additional responsibilities.  (v)  The establishment of clear criteria for the selection of mentor teachers based on the appropriate grade level, subject area knowledge, and measures of teacher effectiveness, which—  (I)  shall be based on, but not limited to, observations of—  (aa)  planning and preparation, including demonstrated knowledge of content, pedagogy, and assessment, including the use of formative, summative, and diagnostic assessments to improve student learning;  (bb)  appropriate instruction that engages all students;  (cc)  collaboration with colleagues to improve instruction; and  (dd)  analysis of evidence of student learning; and  (II)  may include criteria regarding meeting nationally recognized, standards-based advanced certification requirements.  (vi)  The development of admissions goals and priorities—  (I)  that are aligned with the hiring objectives of the local educational agency partnering with the program, as well as the instructional initiatives and curriculum of such agency to hire qualified graduates from the teaching residency program; and  (II)  which may include consideration of applicants who reflect the communities in which they will teach as well as consideration of individuals from underrepresented populations in the teaching profession.  (vii)  Support for residents once such residents are hired as the teachers of record, through an induction program, professional development, and networking opportunities to support the residents through not less than the residents' first 2 years of teaching.  (B)  Selection of individuals as teacher residents  (i)  Eligible individual  In order to be eligible to be a teacher resident in a teacher residency program under this paragraph, an individual shall—  (I)  be a recent graduate of a 4-year institution of higher education, an individual in the final year of an undergraduate teacher preparation program, or a professional possessing strong content knowledge and a record of professional accomplishment in another field; and  (II)  submit an application to the residency program.  (ii)  Selection criteria  An eligible partnership carrying out a teaching residency program under this subsection shall establish criteria for the selection of eligible individuals to participate in the teaching residency program based on the following characteristics:  (I)  Strong content knowledge or record of accomplishment in the field or subject area to be taught.  (II)  Strong verbal and written communication skills, which may be demonstrated by performance on appropriate assessments.  (III)  Other attributes linked to effective teaching, which may be determined by interviews or performance assessments, as specified by the eligible partnership.  (3)  Principal residency programs  (A)  Establishment and design  A principal residency program under this paragraph shall be a program based on models of successful principal residencies that serve as a mechanism to prepare principals for success in high-need schools in the eligible partnership and shall be designed to include the following characteristics of successful programs:  (i)  Engagement of principal residents in rigorous graduate-level coursework to earn an appropriate advanced credential while undertaking a guided principal apprenticeship.  (ii)  Experience and learning opportunities alongside a trained and experienced mentor principal—  (I)  whose mentoring shall be based on standards of effective mentoring practice and shall complement the residency program so that school-based clinical practice is tightly aligned with coursework; and  (II)  who may be relieved from some portion of principal duties or may be offered a stipend as a result of such additional responsibilities.  (iii)  The establishment of clear criteria for the selection of mentor principals, which may be based on observations of the following:  (I)  Demonstrating awareness of, and having experience with, the knowledge, skills, and attitudes to—  (aa)  establish and maintain a professional learning community that effectively extracts information from data to improve the school culture and personalize instruction for all students to result in improved student achievement;  (bb)  create and maintain a learning culture within the school that provides a climate conducive to the development of all members of the school community, including one of continuous learning for adults tied to student learning and other school goals;  (cc)  engage in continuous professional development, using a combination of academic study, developmental simulation exercises, self-reflection, mentorship, and internship;  (dd)  understand child and youth development appropriate to the age level served by the school, and use this knowledge to set high expectations and standards for the academic, social, emotional, and physical development of all students; and  (ee)  actively engage the community to create shared responsibility for student academic performance and successful development.  (II)  Planning and articulating a shared and coherent schoolwide direction and policy for achieving high standards of student performance.  (III)  Identifying and implementing the activities and rigorous curriculum necessary for achieving such standards of student performance.  (IV)  Supporting a culture of learning, collaboration, and professional behavior and ensuring evidence-based instructional practice.  (V)  Communicating and engaging parents, families, and other external communities.  (VI)  Collecting, analyzing, and utilizing data and other evidence of student learning and evidence of classroom practice to guide decisions and actions for continuous improvement and to ensure performance accountability.  (iv)  The development of admissions goals and priorities—  (I)  that are aligned with the hiring objectives of the local educational agency partnering with the program, as well as the instructional initiatives and curriculum of such agency to hire qualified graduates from the principal residency program; and  (II)  which may include consideration of applicants who reflect the communities in which they will serve as well as consideration of individuals from underrepresented populations in school leadership positions.  (v)  Support for residents once such residents are hired as principals, through an induction program, professional development to support the knowledge and skills of the principal in a continuum of learning and content expertise in developmentally appropriate or age-appropriate educational practices, and networking opportunities to support the residents through not less than the residents' first 2 years of serving as principal of a school.  (B)  Selection of individuals as principal residents  (i)  Eligible individual  In order to be eligible to be a principal resident in a principal residency program under this paragraph, an individual shall—  (I)  have prior experience teaching prekindergarten through grade 12;  (II)  have experience as an effective leader, manager, and written and oral communicator; and  (III)  submit an application to the residency program.  (ii)  Selection criteria  An eligible partnership carrying out a principal residency program under this subsection shall establish criteria for the selection of eligible individuals to participate in the principal residency program based on the following characteristics:  (I)  Strong instructional leadership skills in an elementary school or secondary school setting.  (II)  Strong verbal and written communication skills, which may be demonstrated by performance on appropriate assessments.  (III)  Other attributes linked to effective leadership, such as sound judgment, organizational capacity, collaboration, and openness to continuous learning, which may be determined by interviews or performance assessment, as specified by the eligible partnership.  (4)  Stipends or salaries; applications; agreements; repayments  (A)  Stipends or salaries  A teaching or principal residency program under this subsection—  (i)  shall provide a 1-year living stipend or salary to teaching or principal residents during the 1-year teaching or principal residency program; and  (ii)  may provide a stipend to a mentor teacher or mentor principal.  (B)  Applications for stipends or salaries  Each teacher or principal residency candidate desiring a stipend or salary during the period of residency shall submit an application to the eligible partnership at such time, and containing such information and assurances, as the eligible partnership may require.  (C)  Agreements to serve  Each application submitted under subparagraph (B) shall contain or be accompanied by an agreement that the applicant will—  (i)  serve as a full-time teacher or principal for a total of not less than 3 academic years immediately after successfully completing the 1-year teaching or principal residency program;  (ii)  fulfill the requirement under clause (i)—  (I)  by teaching or serving as a principal in a high-need school served by the high-need local educational agency in the eligible partnership and, if a teacher, teaching a subject or area that is designated as high-need by the partnership; or  (II)  if there is no appropriate position available in a high-need school served by the high-need local educational agency in the eligible partnership, by teaching or serving as a principal in any other high-need school;  (iii)  provide to the eligible partnership a certificate, from the chief administrative officer of the local educational agency in which the resident is employed, of the employment required under clauses (i) and (ii) at the beginning of, and on completion of, each year or partial year of service;  (iv)  for teacher residents, meet the requirements to be a profession-ready teacher;  (v)  for principal residents, meet the requirements to be a profession-ready principal;  (vi)  for other educators, complete the preparation program and become fully certified in the State where the educator is employed; and   (vii)  comply with the requirements set by the eligible partnership under subparagraph (D) if the applicant is unable or unwilling to complete the service obligation required by this subparagraph.  (D)  Repayments  (i)  In general  An eligible partnership carrying out a teaching or principal residency program under this subsection shall require a recipient of a stipend or salary under subparagraph (A) who does not complete, or who notifies the partnership that the recipient intends not to complete, the service obligation required by subparagraph (C) to repay such stipend or salary to the eligible partnership, together with interest, at a rate specified by the partnership in the agreement, and in accordance with such other terms and conditions specified by the eligible partnership, as necessary.  (ii)  Other terms and conditions  Any other terms and conditions specified by the eligible partnership may include reasonable provisions for prorated repayment of the stipend or salary described in subparagraph (A) or for deferral of a teaching resident's service obligation required by subparagraph (C), on grounds of health, incapacitation, inability to secure employment in a school served by the eligible partnership, being called to active duty in the Armed Forces of the United States, or other extraordinary circumstances.  (iii)  Use of repayments  An eligible partnership shall use any repayment received under this subparagraph to carry out additional activities that are consistent with the purposes of this section.  (g)  Partnership grants for educator development  An eligible partnership that receives a grant under this section may carry out effective educator development programs for other educators besides teachers and principals based on the needs identified in subsection (b)(1) that may include the following activities:  (1)  Implementing curriculum changes that improve, evaluate, and assess how well prospective and new educators develop instructional skills.  (2)  Preparing educators to use evidence-based research, where applicable.  (3)  Providing pre-service clinical experience.  (4)  Creating induction programs for new educators.  (5)  Aligning recruitment and admissions goals and priorities with the hiring objectives of the high-need local educational agency in the eligible partnership.  (6)  Professional development and training for mentor educators.  (h)  Evaluation and reporting  The Secretary shall—  (1)  evaluate the programs assisted under this section; and  (2)  make publicly available a report detailing the Secretary's evaluation of each such program.  (i)  Consultation  (1)  In general  Members of an eligible partnership that receives a grant under this section shall engage in regular consultation throughout the development and implementation of programs and activities carried out under this section.  (2)  Regular communication  To ensure timely and meaningful consultation as described in paragraph (1), regular communication shall occur among all members of the eligible partnership, including the high-need local educational agency. Such communication shall continue throughout the implementation of the grant and the assessment of programs and activities under this section.  (3)  Written consent  The Secretary may approve changes in grant activities under this section only if the eligible partnership submits to the Secretary a written consent to such changes signed by all members of the eligible partnership.  (j)  Construction  Nothing in this section shall be construed to prohibit an eligible partnership from using grant funds to coordinate with the activities of eligible partnerships in other States or on a regional basis through Governors, State boards of education, State educational agencies, State agencies responsible for early childhood education, local educational agencies, or State agencies for higher education.  (k)  Supplement, not supplant  Funds made available under this section shall be used to supplement, and not supplant, other Federal, State, and local funds that would otherwise be expended to carry out activities under this section.  (l)  Continuation of awards Notwithstanding any other provision of law, from funds appropriated to carry out this part, the Secretary shall continue to fund any multiyear grant awarded under this part (as such provisions were in effect on the day before the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act ), for the duration of such multiyear grant in accordance with its terms.
 223.  Administrative provisions  (a)  Duration; number of awards; payments  (1)  Duration  A grant awarded under this subpart shall be awarded for a period of 5 years.  (2)  Number of awards  An eligible partnership may not receive more than 1 grant during a 5-year period, except that such partnership may receive an additional grant during such period if such grant is used to establish a teacher or principal residency program if such residency program was not established with the prior grant. Nothing in this part shall be construed to prohibit an individual member, that can demonstrate need, of an eligible partnership that receives a grant under this title from entering into another eligible partnership consisting of new members and receiving a grant with such other eligible partnership before the 5-year period described in the preceding sentence applicable to the eligible partnership with which the individual member has first partnered has expired.  (b)  Peer review  (1)  Panel  The Secretary shall provide the applications submitted under this subpart to a peer review panel for evaluation. With respect to each application, the peer review panel shall initially recommend the application for funding or for disapproval.  (2)  Priority  The Secretary, in funding applications under this subpart, shall give priority—  (A)  to eligible partnerships that include an institution of higher education whose teacher education program or educator development program has a rigorous selection process and demonstrated success in having a diverse set of candidates complete the program, and enter and remain in the profession; and   (B)  (i)  to applications from broad-based eligible partnerships that involve businesses and community organizations; or  (ii)  to eligible partnerships so that the awards promote an equitable geographic distribution of grants among rural and urban areas.  (3)  Secretarial selection  The Secretary shall determine, based on the peer review process, which applications shall receive funding and the amounts of the grants. In determining grant amounts, the Secretary shall take into account the total amount of funds available for all grants under this subpart and the types of activities proposed to be carried out by the eligible partnership.  (c)  Matching requirements  (1)  In general  Each eligible partnership receiving a grant under this subpart shall provide, from non-Federal sources, an amount equal to 100 percent of the amount of the grant, which may be provided in cash or in-kind, to carry out the activities supported by the grant.  (2)  Waiver  The Secretary may waive all or part of the matching requirement described in paragraph (1) for any fiscal year for an eligible partnership if the Secretary determines that applying the matching requirement to the eligible partnership would result in serious hardship or an inability to carry out the authorized activities described in this subpart.  (d)  Limitation on administrative expenses  An eligible partnership that receives a grant under this subpart may use not more than two percent of the funds provided to administer the grant. 
 224.  Accountability and evaluation  (a)  Eligible partnership evaluation  Each eligible partnership submitting an application for a grant under this subpart shall establish, and include in such application, an evaluation plan that includes strong and measurable performance objectives. The plan shall include objectives and measures for—  (1)  program completion rates;  (2)  achievement for all prospective and new educators as measured by the eligible partnership;  (3)  educator retention in the first 3 years;  (4)  pass rates for initial State certification or licensure of teachers or pass rates on valid and reliable teacher performance assessments;   (5)  the percentage of profession-ready teachers, principals, and other educators—  (A)  hired by the high-need local educational agency or schools participating in the eligible partnership; and  (B)  hired by the high-need local educational agency or schools participating in the eligible partnership who are members of underrepresented groups;  (6)  the percentage of profession-ready teachers hired by the high-need local educational agency or schools participating in the eligible partnership—  (A)  who teach high-need academic subject areas (such as reading, mathematics, science, and foreign languages, including less commonly taught languages and critical foreign languages); and  (B)  who teach in high-need areas (including special education, bilingual education, language instruction educational programs for English learners, and early childhood education);  (7)  the percentage of profession-ready teachers and other educators hired by the high-need local educational agency who work in high-need schools, disaggregated by the elementary school and secondary school levels;  (8)  as applicable, the percentage of early childhood education program classes in the geographic area served by the eligible partnership taught by early childhood educators who are highly competent; and  (9)  as applicable, the percentage of educators hired by the high-need local educational agency or schools participating in the eligible partnership that are trained to—  (A)  integrate technology effectively into curricula and instruction, including technology consistent with the principles of universal design for learning; and  (B)  use technology effectively to collect, manage, and analyze data to improve teaching and learning for the purpose of improving student learning outcomes.   (b)  Information  An eligible partnership receiving a grant under this subpart shall ensure that teachers, principals, school superintendents, faculty, and leadership at institutions of higher education located in the geographic areas served by the eligible partnership are provided information, including through electronic means, about the activities carried out with funds under this subpart.  (c)  Revised application  If the Secretary determines that an eligible partnership receiving a grant under this subpart is not making substantial progress in meeting the purposes, goals, objectives, and measures of the grant, as appropriate, by the end of the third year of the grant the Secretary—  (1)  shall cancel the grant; and  (2)  may use any funds returned or available because of such cancellation under paragraph (1) to—  (A)  increase other grant awards under this subpart; or  (B)  award new grants to other eligible partnerships under this subpart.  (d)  Evaluation and dissemination  The Secretary shall evaluate the activities funded under this subpart and report the findings regarding the evaluation of such activities to the authorizing committees. The Secretary shall broadly disseminate—  (1)  successful practices developed by eligible partnerships under this subpart; and  (2)  information regarding such practices that were found to be ineffective. 
 2  Grants to support recruitment of new educators and diversity in the profession  231.  Honorable Augustus F. Hawkins Centers of Excellence  (a)  Purpose  The purpose of this subpart is to strengthen and expand the recruitment, training, and retention of candidates into the teaching profession who are from underrepresented groups in such profession.  (b)  Eligible institution defined In this subpart, the term  eligible institution  means an institution of higher education that has a teacher or school leader preparation program that is accredited by the State and that is— (1)  a part B institution (as defined in section 322);  (2)  a Hispanic-serving institution (as defined in section 502);  (3)  a Tribal college or university (as defined in section 316);  (4)  an Alaska Native-serving institution (as defined in section 317(b));  (5)  a Native Hawaiian-serving institution (as defined in section 317(b));  (6)  a Predominantly Black Institution (as defined in section 318);  (7)  an Asian-American and Native American Pacific Islander-serving institution (as defined in section 320(b));  (8)  a Native American-serving, nontribal institution (as defined in section 319);  (9)  a consortium of any of the institutions described in paragraphs (1) through (8); or  (10)  an institution of higher education in partnership with an institution described in paragraph (1) through (8), provided that an institution described in paragraph (1) through (8) is the lead entity in the partnership.   (c)  Augustus F. Hawkins Centers of Excellence  (1)  Program authorized  From the amounts provided to carry out this subpart, the Secretary shall award grants, on a competitive basis, to eligible institutions to establish centers of excellence.  (2)  Use of funds An eligible institution shall use a grant received under this subpart to ensure that programs offered at a center of excellence established by such institution prepare current and future teachers or school leaders to be profession-ready, and meet the applicable State certification and licensure requirements, including any requirements for certification obtained through alternative routes to certification, or, with regard to special education teachers, the qualifications described in section 612(a)(14) of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act ( 20 U.S.C. 1412(a)(14)(C) ), by carrying out one or more of the following activities: (A)  Implementing reforms within teacher or school leader preparation programs, which may include such preparation programs that prepare teachers or school leaders for early childhood education programs, to ensure that such programs are preparing teachers or school leaders who meet such applicable State certification and licensure requirements or qualifications, and are using evidence-based instructional practices to improve student academic achievement, by—   (i)  retraining or recruiting faculty; and  (ii)  designing (or redesigning) teacher or school leader preparation programs that—  (I) prepare teachers or school leaders to serve in under-resourced schools and close student achievement gaps, and that are based on rigorous academic content, evidence-based research, and challenging State academic standards as described in section 1111(b)(1) of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 6311(b)(1) ); and (II)  promote effective teaching skills.  (B)  Providing sustained and high-quality preservice clinical experience, including the mentoring of prospective teachers by teacher leaders, substantially increasing interaction between faculty at institutions of higher education and new and experienced teachers, principals, school leaders, and other administrators at elementary schools or secondary schools, and providing support, including preparation time, for such interaction.  (C)  Developing and implementing initiatives to promote retention of teachers who meet such applicable State certification and licensure requirements or qualifications, and principals and other school leaders, including teachers of color, principals and other school leaders, including programs that provide—  (i)  teacher or principal and other school leader mentoring; and  (ii)  induction and support for teachers and principals and other school leaders during their first three years of employment as teachers, principals, or other school leaders, respectively.  (D)  Awarding scholarships based on financial need to help students pay the costs of tuition, room, board, and other expenses of completing a teacher or other school leader preparation program, not to exceed the cost of attendance as defined in section 472.  (E)  Disseminating information on effective practices for teacher or other school leader preparation and successful teacher or other school leader certification and licensure assessment preparation strategies.  (F)  Activities authorized under section 222.  (3)  Application  Any eligible institution desiring a grant under this subpart shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and accompanied by such information as the Secretary may require.  (4)  Limitation on administrative expenses  An eligible institution that receives a grant under this subpart may use not more than 2 percent of the grant funds to administer the grant.   (5)  Regulations  The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to carry out this subpart. 
 232.  Recruitment and completion grants  (a)  In General  From amounts appropriated under section 221, the Secretary may award grants to institutions of higher education that have educator preparation programs in order to allow those programs to support the needs of populations that are underrepresented in the field of education, including first generation college students and students with disabilities, to ensure completion of the educator preparation program and entrance into the profession.  (b)  Uses of funds  An institution of higher education receiving a grant under this section may use grant funds to support students described in subsection (a) who are enrolled in educator preparation programs by providing services such as—  (1)  childcare for such enrolled students;  (2)  cohort support;  (3)  programs that provide pathways from community colleges to baccalaureate programs in the field of education; and  (4)  programs that pay for certification or licensure exams, including re-taking of exams as necessary and the additional preparation to ensure passage of the exams. 
 233.  Pipelines into educator preparation  (a)  Education careers opportunity program  (1)  Authority for grants  The Secretary may make grants to partner institutions or eligible partnerships to assist those institutions or partnerships in carrying out the activities described in paragraph (2) in order to assist individuals from underrepresented backgrounds, as determined in accordance with criteria prescribed by the Secretary, to undertake education to become an educator.  (2)  Authorized expenditures  A partner institution or eligible partnership may use grant funds under this section to carry out one or more of the following:  (A)  Identifying, recruiting, and selecting individuals from underrepresented backgrounds for education and training as an educator.  (B)  Facilitating the entry of such individuals into an educator preparation program.   (C)  Providing counseling, mentoring, or other services designed to assist such individuals in successfully completing an educator preparation program.  (D)  Providing, for a period prior to the entry of such individuals into the regular course of education of an educator preparation program, preliminary education designed to assist them in successfully completing such regular course of education in such program, or referring such individuals to institutions providing such preliminary education.  (E)  Publicizing existing sources of financial aid available to students in the educator preparation program or who are undertaking education necessary to qualify them to enroll in such a program.  (F)  Paying such scholarships as the Secretary may determine for such individuals for any period of an educator preparation program.  (G)  Paying such stipends as the Secretary may approve for such individuals for any period of education in student-enhancement programs (other than regular courses), except that—  (i)  such a stipend may not be provided to an individual for more than 12 months; and   (ii)  notwithstanding any other provision of law regarding the amount of stipends, such a stipend shall be in an amount determined appropriate by the Secretary.  (H)  Carrying out programs under which such individuals gain experience regarding a career as an educator through working at an elementary or secondary school.  (I)  Conducting activities to develop a larger and more competitive applicant pool for the relevant teacher preparation program and for local educational agencies and schools through partnerships with institutions of higher education, local educational agencies, and other community-based entities.  (3)  Definition In this section, the term  regular course of education in such program  includes a graduate program in education. (4)  Matching Requirements  The Secretary may require that a partner institution or eligible partnership that applies for a grant under this subsection, provide non-Federal matching funds, as appropriate, to ensure the institutional commitment of the entity to the projects funded under the grant. As determined by the Secretary, such non-Federal matching funds may be provided directly or through donations from public or private entities and may be in cash or in-kind, fairly evaluated, including plant, equipment, or services.  
 3  Capacity building grants  241.  School leader professional development  From amounts appropriated under section 221, the Secretary may award grants to institutions of higher education that have educator preparation programs for school leaders in order to allow those programs to develop and support school leaders in one or more of the following areas:   (1)  Culturally and linguistically responsive practices.  (2)  Universal design for learning.  (3)  Social and emotional learning.  (4)  Trauma-informed instruction.  (5)  Strengthening knowledge of child and youth development.  (6)  Creating a safe school environment to minimize and respond to violence in schools.  (7)  Creating an inclusive school for educators, staff, and students, including through restorative justice training.   (8)  Response to intervention and non-exclusionary, positive behavioral interventions and supports (including eliminating the use of adverse interventions such as seclusion and restraints).  (9)  Differentiated and data-driven instruction, including—  (A)  the use of data to identify and address disparities in academic achievement, academic opportunities (including advanced coursework, dual enrollment, and career and technical education), and disciplinary rates among student subgroups; and  (B)  determining and using accommodations for instruction and assessments for students with disabilities and English learners.  (10)  Evidence-based anti-bias training.  (11)  Effective and equitable use of technology for digital and blended learning (including the appropriate use of technology and assistive technology for students with disabilities).  (12)  Effective strategies to engage and collaborate with stakeholders to advance the learning of all students (including parents and families, other educational professionals, out-of-school time providers, and community members).  (13)  Other evidence-based strategies and practices that advance the academic achievement of all students, including students of color, English learners, students from low-income families, and students with disabilities. 
 242.  Faculty professional development and training  The Secretary may award grants to institutions of higher education that have educator preparation programs in order to allow those programs to develop and support faculty in a college, school, or department of education in—   (1)  culturally responsive pedagogy;  (2)  trauma-informed instruction;   (3)  creating an inclusive climate for faculty, staff, and students, including restorative justice training; and  (4)  strengthening knowledge of child and youth development. 
 243.  Resiliency grants  (a)  In general The Secretary may award grants, on a competitive basis, to institutions of higher education that have educator preparation programs, to enable those programs to carry out the activities described in subsection (b) or (c). Such grants shall be known as  Resiliency Grants .  (b)  Technology  An educator preparation program that receives a Resiliency Grant for technology shall use grant funds to—  (1)  support the preparation of profession-ready educators by expanding the use of technology in pre-service clinical and field experiences of students enrolled in educator preparation programs;   (2)  expand the use of technology for the in-class instruction of students in educator preparation programs;   (3)   conduct research on and analysis of technological tools in classroom settings;  (4)  ensure that technology is used in an equitable manner to enhance the learning and opportunities of students; and  (5)  ensure that educators are prepared to support the continuity of instruction in the event of national or local emergencies that disrupt in-person schooling.   (c)  Educator workforce partnerships  (1)  In General  An educator preparation program that receives a Resiliency Grant for educator workforce partnerships shall use grant funds to facilitate partnerships between the educator preparation program and at least one eligible entity in order to address shortages in certain subject matter fields in schools documented by the State educational agency where the educator preparation program is authorized to operate, by—  (A)  expanding pathways for individuals to become profession-ready educators;   (B)  expanding pathways for currently practicing educators to earn supplemental credentials or licenses, which may include—  (i)  certification in shortage areas or fields as identified by a State or local educational agency; or  (ii)  nationally recognized, standards-based advanced certification; or  (C)  ensuring that schools have adequate staffing to provide continuity of instruction in the event of national or local emergencies that disrupt in-person schooling.   (2)  Eligible entity In this subsection, the term  eligible entity  means— (A)  a local educational agency;  (B)  a 2-year institution of higher education, which may include a community college; or  (C)  a 4-year institution of higher education.  (3)  Priority  In awarding grants under this subsection, the Secretary shall prioritize proposals that create degree pathways for the purpose of increasing the number of individuals from groups that have been historically underrepresented in the field of education who pursue and attain profession-ready educator credentials. 
 244.  Doctoral fellowships to prepare and diversify faculty in high-need areas at colleges of education  (a)  Grants by secretary  The Secretary may make grants to eligible institutions to enable such institutions to make doctoral fellowship awards to qualified individuals in accordance with this section.  (b)  Eligible institutions In this section, the term  eligible institution  means an institution of higher education that offers a program of postbaccalaureate study leading to a doctoral degree. (c)  Applications  An eligible institution that desires a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require.  (d)  Types of fellowships supported  (1)  In general  An eligible institution that receives a grant under this section shall use the grant funds to provide doctoral fellowships to individuals who are preparing for the professorate, including individuals from groups that are underrepresented in the field of education.  (2)  Types of study  A doctoral fellowship provided under this section shall support an individual in pursuing postbaccalaureate study, which leads to a doctoral degree and may include a master’s degree as part of such study, related to teacher preparation and pedagogy in one of the following areas:  (A)  Science, technology, engineering, or mathematics, if the individual has completed a master's degree in mathematics or science and is pursuing a doctoral degree in mathematics, science, or education.  (B)  Special or exceptional student education.   (C)  The instruction of English learners, including postbaccalaureate study in language instruction educational programs.  (e)  Fellowship terms and conditions  (1)  Selection of fellows  The Secretary shall ensure that an eligible institution that receives a grant under this section—  (A)  shall provide doctoral fellowship awards to individuals who plan to pursue a career in instruction at an institution of higher education that has a teacher preparation program;  (B)  in providing fellowship awards under this section, shall give priority to individuals who are from groups that are underrepresented in the higher education professoriate, including people of color, and people with disabilities; and  (C)  may not provide a doctoral fellowship to an otherwise eligible individual—  (i)  during periods in which such individual is enrolled at an institution of higher education unless such individual is maintaining satisfactory academic progress in, and devoting full-time study or research to, the pursuit of the degree for which the fellowship support was provided; or  (ii)  if the individual is engaged in gainful employment, other than part-time employment related to teaching, research, or a similar activity determined by the institution to be consistent with and supportive of the individual's progress toward the degree for which the fellowship support was provided.  (2)  Amount of fellowship awards  (A)  In general  An eligible institution that receives a grant under this section shall award stipends to individuals who are provided graduate fellowships under this section.  (B)  Awards based on need  A stipend provided under this section shall be in an amount equal to the level of support provided by the National Science Foundation graduate fellowships, except that such stipend shall be adjusted as necessary so as not to exceed the fellowship recipient's demonstrated need, as determined by the institution of higher education where the fellowship recipient is enrolled.  (3)  Service requirement  (A)  Teaching required  Each individual who receives a doctoral fellowship under this section shall teach for one year at an institution of higher education that has a teacher preparation program or a teacher or school leader residency or induction program for each year of fellowship support received under this section.  (B)  Institutional obligation  Each eligible institution that receives a grant under this section shall provide an assurance to the Secretary that the institution has inquired of and determined the decision of each individual who has received a graduate fellowship to begin employment, within three years of receiving a doctoral degree, at an institution of higher education that has a teacher preparation program, as required by this section.  (C)  Agreement required  Prior to receiving an initial graduate fellowship award, and upon the annual renewal of the graduate fellowship award, an individual selected to receive a graduate fellowship under this section shall sign an agreement with the Secretary agreeing to pursue a career in instruction at an institution of higher education that has a teacher preparation program in accordance with subparagraph (A).  (D)  Failure to comply  If an individual who receives a graduate fellowship award under this section fails to comply with the agreement signed pursuant to subparagraph (C), the sum of the amounts of any graduate fellowship award received by such recipient shall, upon a determination of such a failure, be treated as a Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan under part D of title IV, and shall be subject to repayment, together with interest thereon accruing from the date of the fellowship award, in accordance with terms and conditions specified by the Secretary in regulations under this subpart.  (E)  Modified service requirement  The Secretary may waive or modify the service requirement of this paragraph in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary with respect to the criteria to determine the circumstances under which compliance with such service requirement is inequitable or represents a substantial hardship. The Secretary may waive the service requirement if compliance by the fellowship recipient is determined to be inequitable or represent a substantial hardship—  (i)  because the individual is permanently and totally disabled at the time of the waiver request; or  (ii)  based on documentation presented to the Secretary of substantial economic or personal hardship.  (f)  Institutional support for fellows  An eligible institution that receives a grant under this section may reserve not more than ten percent of the grant amount for academic and career transition support for graduate fellowship recipients and for meeting the institutional obligation described in subsection (e)(3)(B).  (g)  Restriction on use of funds  An eligible institution that receives a grant under this section may not use grant funds for general operational overhead of the institution. 
 C  National Activities  251.  National Activities  (a)  In General  The Secretary shall establish a Center for Educator Preparation to provide technical assistance relating to educator preparation and to support research and demonstration activities.  (b)  National evaluation of educator quality enhancement  (1)  Interim evaluation Not later than 3 years after the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act , the Secretary shall submit to Congress and make publicly available an interim report containing an evaluation of the effectiveness of the activities funded under this title in achieving the purposes of this title. (2)  Final evaluation Not later than 6 years after the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act , the Secretary shall submit to Congress and make publicly available an interim report containing an evaluation of the effectiveness of the activities funded under this title in achieving the purposes of this title.
 D  General Provisions  261.  Limitations  (a)  Federal control prohibited  Nothing in this title shall be construed to permit, allow, encourage, or authorize any Federal control over any aspect of any private, religious, or home school, whether or not a home school is treated as a private school or home school under State law. This section shall not be construed to prohibit private, religious, or home schools from participation in programs or services under this title.  (b)  No change in state control encouraged or required  Nothing in this title shall be construed to encourage or require any change in a State's treatment of any private, religious, or home school, whether or not a home school is treated as a private school or home school under State law.  (c)  National system of teacher certification or licensure prohibited  Nothing in this title shall be construed to permit, allow, encourage, or authorize the Secretary to establish or support any national system of teacher certification or licensure.  (d)  Rule of construction  Nothing in this title shall be construed to alter or otherwise affect the rights, remedies, and procedures afforded to the employees of local educational agencies under Federal, State, or local laws (including applicable regulations or court orders) or under the terms of collective bargaining agreements, memoranda of understanding, or other agreements between such employees and their employers.  
 . 
 4.  Cost of attendance  (a)  In General Section 472 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1087ll ) is amended— (1)  by redesignating paragraphs (12) and (13) as paragraphs (13) and (14), respectively; and  (2)  by inserting after paragraph (11) the following:   (12)  for a student enrolled in an educator preparation program, reasonable costs associated with clinical experiences related to that program;   .  (b)  FAFSA Simplification Section 472 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1087ll ), as amended by title VII of division FF of the FAFSA Simplification Act ( Public Law 116–260 ), is amended— (1)  in subsection (a)—  (A)  by redesignating paragraphs (13) and (14) as paragraphs (14) and (15), respectively; and  (B)  by inserting after paragraph (12) the following:  (13)  for a student enrolled in an educator preparation program, reasonable costs associated with clinical experiences related to that program;  ; and  (2) in subsection (c), by striking  paragraphs (1) through (14)  and inserting  paragraphs (1) through (15) .
 5.  TEACH Grants Subpart 9 of part A of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1070g et seq. ) is amended to read as follows:  9  Teach Grants  420L.  Definitions  For the purposes of this subpart:  (1)  Eligible institution The term  eligible institution  means an institution of higher education, as defined in section 102, that the Secretary determines— (A)  provides teacher preparation and professional development services, including extensive clinical experience as a part of pre-service preparation;  (B)  is financially responsible and is not subject to heightened cash monitoring or provisional certification;  (C)  provides pedagogical course work, or assistance in the provision of such coursework, including the monitoring of student performance, and formal instruction related to the theory and practices of teaching; and  (D)  provides supervision and support services to teachers, or assistance in the provision of such services, including mentoring focused on developing effective teaching skills and strategies.  (2)  Post-baccalaureate The term  post-baccalaureate  means a program of instruction for individuals who have completed a baccalaureate degree, that does not lead to a graduate degree, and that consists of courses required by a State in order for a teacher candidate to receive a professional certification or licensing credential that is required for employment as a teacher in an elementary school or secondary school in that State, except that such term shall not include any program of instruction offered by an eligible institution that offers a baccalaureate degree in education. (3)  Teacher candidate The term  teacher candidate  means a student or teacher described in subparagraph (A) or (B) of section 420N(a)(2).
 420M.  Program established  (a)  Program authority  (1)  Payments required  The Secretary shall pay to each eligible institution such sums as may be necessary to pay to each teacher candidate who files an application and agreement in accordance with section 420N, and who qualifies under paragraph (2) of section 420N(a), a TEACH Grant in the amount of $8,000 for each year during which that teacher candidate is in attendance at the institution.  (2)  References Grants made under paragraph (1) shall be known as  Teacher Education Assistance for College and Higher Education Grants  or  TEACH Grants . (b)  Payment methodology  (1)  Prepayment  Not less than 85 percent of any funds provided to an eligible institution under subsection (a) shall be advanced to the eligible institution prior to the start of each payment period and shall be based on an amount requested by the institution as needed to pay teacher candidates until such time as the Secretary determines and publishes in the Federal Register with an opportunity for comment, an alternative payment system that provides payments to institutions in an accurate and timely manner, except that this sentence shall not be construed to limit the authority of the Secretary to place an institution on a reimbursement system of payment.  (2)  Direct payment  Nothing in this section shall be interpreted to prohibit the Secretary from paying directly to teacher candidates, in advance of the beginning of the academic term, an amount for which teacher candidates are eligible, in cases in which the eligible institution elects not to participate in the disbursement system required by paragraph (1).  (3)  Distribution of grants to teacher candidates  Payments under this subpart shall be made, in accordance with regulations promulgated by the Secretary for such purpose, in such manner as will best accomplish the purposes of this subpart. Any disbursement allowed to be made by crediting the teacher candidate’s account shall be used for the full cost of attendance (as defined in section 472).  (c)  Reductions in amount  (1)  Part-time students  In any case in which a teacher candidate attends an eligible institution on less than a full-time basis (including a teacher candidate who attends an eligible institution on less than a half-time basis) during any year, the amount of a grant under this subpart for which that teacher candidate is eligible shall be reduced in proportion to the degree to which that teacher candidate is not attending on a full-time basis, in accordance with a schedule of reductions established by the Secretary for the purposes of this subpart, computed in accordance with this subpart. Such schedule of reductions shall be established by regulation and published in the Federal Register in accordance with section 482 of this Act.  (2)  No exceeding cost  The amount of a grant awarded under this subpart, in combination with Federal assistance and other assistance the student may receive, shall not exceed the cost of attendance (as defined in section 472) at the eligible institution at which that teacher candidate is in attendance.  (d)  Period of eligibility for grants  (1)  Undergraduate and post-baccalaureate students  The period during which an undergraduate or post-baccalaureate student may receive grants under this subpart shall be the period required for the completion of the first undergraduate baccalaureate or post-baccalaureate course of study being pursued by the teacher candidate at the eligible institution at which the teacher candidate is in attendance, except that—  (A)  any period during which the teacher candidate is enrolled in a noncredit or remedial course of study as described in paragraph (3) shall not be counted for the purpose of this paragraph; and  (B)  the total amount that a teacher candidate may receive under this subpart for undergraduate or post-baccalaureate study shall not exceed $40,000.  (2)  Graduate students  The period during which a graduate student may receive grants under this subpart shall be the period required for the completion of a master’s degree course of study pursued by the teacher candidate at the eligible institution at which the teacher candidate is in attendance, except that the total amount that a teacher candidate may receive under this subpart for graduate study shall not exceed $16,000.  (3)  Remedial course; study abroad  Nothing in this section shall be construed to exclude from eligibility courses of study which are noncredit or remedial in nature (including courses in English language acquisition) which are determined by the eligible institution to be necessary to help the teacher candidate be prepared for the pursuit of a first undergraduate baccalaureate or post-baccalaureate degree or certificate or, in the case of courses in English language instruction, to be necessary to enable the teacher candidate to use already existing knowledge, training, or skills. Nothing in this section shall be construed to exclude from eligibility programs of study abroad that are approved for credit by the home institution at which the teacher candidate is enrolled.  (e)  Institutional eligibility  Notwithstanding subsections (a) and (b), an institution shall not be eligible to participate in the TEACH grant program under this subpart for a period of 3 years, and shall be required to submit an application to regain eligibility after that 3 year period, if for a period of 3 consecutive years, 50 percent or more of the TEACH grant recipients who are graduates of that institution have TEACH grants converted to loans under section 420N(c)(1). 
 420N.  Applications; eligibility  (a)  Applications; demonstration of eligibility  (1)  Filing required  The Secretary shall periodically set dates by which teacher candidates shall file applications for grants under this subpart. Each teacher candidate desiring a grant under this subpart for any year shall file an application containing such information and assurances as the Secretary may determine necessary to enable the Secretary to carry out the functions and responsibilities of this subpart.  (2)  Demonstration of teach grant eligibility  Each application submitted under paragraph (1) shall contain such information as is necessary to demonstrate that—  (A)  if the applicant is an enrolled student—  (i)  the student is an eligible student for purposes of section 484; and  (ii)  the student is completing coursework and other requirements necessary to begin a career in teaching, or plans to complete such coursework and requirements prior to graduating; or  (B)  if the applicant is a current or prospective teacher applying for a grant to obtain a graduate degree—  (i)  the applicant is a teacher or a retiree from another occupation with expertise in a field in which there is a shortage of teachers, such as mathematics, science, special education, English language acquisition, or another high-need subject;  (ii)  the applicant is or was a teacher who is using evidence-based alternative certification routes; or  (iii)  the applicant is a practicing teacher in another field and is pursuing an additional credential in a field in which there is a shortage of teachers, such as mathematics, science, special education, English language acquisition, or another high-need subject.  (b)  Agreements To serve  Each application under subsection (a) shall contain or be accompanied by an agreement by the applicant that—  (1)  the applicant will—  (A) serve as a full-time teacher for a total of not less than 4 academic years within 8 years after completing the course of study for which the applicant received a TEACH Grant under this subpart (referred to in this section as the  service obligation window ); (B)  teach in a school described in section 465(a)(2)(A);  (C)  teach in any of the following fields—  (i)  mathematics;  (ii)  science;  (iii)  a foreign language;  (iv)  bilingual education;  (v)  special education;  (vi)  as a reading specialist;  (vii)  early childhood education; or  (viii)  another field documented as high-need by the Federal Government, State government, or local educational agency, and approved by the Secretary; and  (D)  submit evidence of such employment in the form of a certification by the chief administrative officer of the school upon completion of each year of such service;  (2)  in the event that the applicant is determined to have failed or refused to carry out such service obligation, an amount (which shall be a pro-rated amount for partial service) of any TEACH Grants received by such applicant will be treated as a loan and collected from the applicant in accordance with subsection (c) and the regulations thereunder; and  (3)  contains, or is accompanied by, a plain-language disclosure form developed by the Secretary that clearly describes the nature of the TEACH Grant award, the service obligation, and the loan repayment requirements that are the consequence of the failure to complete the service obligation.  (c)  Repayment for failure To complete service  (1)  In general  If any recipient of a grant under this subpart fails or refuses to comply with some or all of the service obligation in the agreement under subsection (b)—  (A)  the Secretary shall determine the proportion of the total amount of time of the service obligation that the recipient has failed or refused to complete; and  (B)  the Secretary shall determine, on a pro-rated basis and based on the proportion described in subparagraph (A), the amounts of any TEACH Grants received by such recipient that shall, upon a determination of such a failure or refusal in such service obligation, be treated as a Federal Direct Stafford Loan under part D of title IV (except that such loan shall not begin to accrue interest until the time of conversion) and shall ensure that those amounts are subject to repayment, in accordance with terms and conditions specified by the Secretary in regulations under this subpart.  (2)  Loan deferment  In the case of a TEACH grant recipient whose grant has been converted to a Federal Direct loan under part D in accordance with paragraph (1) and who is, at the time of such conversion, teaching in an elementary or secondary school that is not a school described in section 465(a)(2)(A), the Secretary shall—  (A)  issue that recipient a deferment for a period of not more than 3 years, during which time periodic installments on such loan need not be paid and interest shall be paid by the Secretary; and   (B)  ensure that such recipient is enrolled in the loan credit program under section 460, if eligible.  (d)  Additional administrative provisions  (1)  Changes to school or designation  (A)  Change of high-need designation field  If a recipient of an initial grant under this subpart has acquired an academic degree, or expertise, in a field that was, at the time of the recipient’s application for that grant, designated as high need in accordance with subsection (b)(1)(C)(viii), but is no longer so designated, the grant recipient may fulfill the service obligation described in subsection (b)(1) by teaching in that field.  (B)  Change of high-need designation field or school  Notwithstanding subsection (b), if a recipient of a grant under this subpart begins teaching at a school described in subsection (b)(1)(B) and in a field described in subsection (b)(1)(C) during the service obligation window, but such school or field later is no longer designated under subsection (b), the grant recipient may fulfill the service obligation described in subsection (b)(1) by continuing to teach in that school and field and completing the required period of service within the service obligation window.  (2)  Extenuating circumstances  The Secretary shall establish, by regulation, categories of extenuating circumstances under which a recipient of a grant under this subpart who is unable to fulfill all or part of the recipient’s service obligation may be excused from fulfilling that portion of the service obligation.  (3)  Extension of service obligation window The Secretary shall extend the service obligation window of a TEACH grant recipient for a period of not more than 3 additional years, if that recipient has experienced an event described in section 102(a) of the Family and Medical Leave Act of 1993 ( 29 U.S.C. 2612(a) ).
 420O.  Program period and funding  Beginning on July 1, 2008, there shall be available to the Secretary to carry out this subpart, from funds not otherwise appropriated, such sums as may be necessary to provide TEACH Grants in accordance with this subpart to each eligible applicant. 
 420P.  Reports to authorizing committees  (a)  Program report Not later than two years after the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act  and every 2 years thereafter, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the authorizing committees a report on TEACH grants with respect to the schools and students served by recipients of such grants. Such report shall take into consideration information related to— (1)  the number of TEACH grant recipients;  (2)  the degrees obtained by such recipients;  (3)  the location, including the school, local educational agency, and State, where the recipients completed the service agreed to under section 420N(b) and the subject taught;  (4)  the duration of such service; and  (5)  any other data necessary to conduct such evaluation.  (b)  Annual report Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act  and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to the authorizing committees a report containing information about the following in the period since the last report was submitted: (1)  The number of TEACH grants converted to loans under section 420N(c)(1).  (2)  The number of such grant conversions that were reversed in accordance with section 420N(c)(2).  (3)  The number of contacts or complaints to the Department of Education or the Consumer Financial Protection Bureau (including through any ombudsman) received from a TEACH grant recipient, and the resolutions of those contacts or complaints.  (4)  Demographic information about recipients of TEACH grants, including race, ethnicity, and gender.  
 420Q.  Servicer accountability  The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary to ensure accurate administrative oversight and appropriate penalties for third party servicers in order to ensure that—  (1)  those servicers properly perform their contractual obligations with respect to this subpart; and  (2)  those servicers are held responsible with respect to the loss of benefits of TEACH grant recipients due to servicer failures. 
 . 
 6.  Loan credit for educators  (a)  Loan credit for educators Section 460 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1087j ) is amended to read as follows: 460.  Loan credit for eligible educator borrowers  (a)  Statement of purpose  It is the purpose of this section to encourage individuals to enter and continue in the education profession.  (b)  Program authorized Beginning not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act , the Secretary shall carry out a program of applying monthly credits in accordance with subsection (c) for covered loans for any new borrower on or after October 1, 1998, who is an eligible educator borrower. (c)  Qualified loan amounts  (1)  In general  (A)  Amount of credit For every eligible educator borrower enrolled in an income contingent or income-based repayment plan (including plans under section 493C or section 455(d)(1)(D)), the Secretary shall apply a monthly credit for each month of covered service (including past covered service on or after the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act ) to the balance of interest and principal due on any covered loan for that eligible educator borrower in an amount that, when added to the monthly payment required from the borrower, would be equal to the monthly payment amount that would repay the borrower’s original balance and accrued interest on the basis of a 10-year amortization schedule.  (B)  Covered service With respect to monthly credits described in subparagraph (A),  covered service  means full-time employment as an educator beginning on or after the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act . (2)  Amounts for high-need service  (A)  Educators in high-need schools  Subject to subparagraph (C), and in addition to any amount specified in paragraph (1) for which a borrower is eligible, the Secretary shall apply a monthly non-refundable credit (including for past covered service) in the amount of $90 for not more than 60 months to the balance of interest and principal due on any covered loan (or until such loan obligation is fulfilled) for each month that a borrower is an eligible educator borrower in the case of—  (i)  an eligible educator borrower who is employed as a full-time educator in a school or location that qualifies under section 465(a)(2)(A) for loan cancellation for Perkins loan recipients who teach in such schools or locations; or  (ii)  an eligible educator borrower who is employed as an elementary school or secondary school educator and meets the requirements of subsection (g)(1).  (B)  Teachers in mathematics, science, or special education  Subject to subparagraph (C), and in addition to any amount specified in paragraph (1) for which a borrower is eligible, the Secretary shall apply a monthly non-refundable credit (including for past covered service) in the amount of $300 for not more than 60 months to the balance of interest and principal due on any covered loan (or until such loan obligation is fulfilled) for each month that a borrower is an eligible educator borrower in the case of—  (i)  a secondary school teacher—  (I)  who is an eligible educator borrower; and  (II)  whose qualifying employment for purposes of this section is teaching mathematics or science on a full-time basis; and  (ii)  an elementary school or secondary school teacher—  (I)  who is an eligible educator borrower;  (II)  whose qualifying employment for purposes of this section is as a special education teacher whose primary responsibility is to provide special education to children with disabilities (as those terms are defined in section 602 of the Individuals with Disabilities Education Act); and  (III)  who, as certified by the chief administrative officer of the public or non-profit private elementary school or secondary school in which the borrower is employed, or, in the case of a teacher who is employed by an educational service agency, as certified by the chief administrative officer of such agency, is teaching children with disabilities that correspond with the borrower’s special education training and has demonstrated knowledge and teaching skills in the content areas of the elementary school or secondary school curriculum that the borrower is teaching.  (C)  Rules for high-need service  (i)  Limitation on additional benefits  An eligible educator borrower shall not receive the credit amounts under both subparagraphs (A) and (B). In the case of an eligible educator borrower who may otherwise be eligible for both additional credit amounts, that borrower shall receive the additional credit amount described in subparagraph (B).  (ii)  Eligibility  A borrower shall be eligible to receive credit amounts under subparagraph (A) or (B) regardless of the borrower's repayment plan. A borrower shall not be required to be enrolled in an income contingent or income-based repayment plan to receive credit amounts under subparagraph (A) or (B).   (D)  Covered service  (i)  High-need schools With respect to monthly credits described in subparagraph (A),  covered service  means full-time employment completed after October 1, 1998— (I)  as an educator at a school or location described in clause (i) or (ii) of such subparagraph; or  (II) which would have been considered qualifying service for the benefits under this section as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act . (ii)  High-need fields With respect to monthly credits described in subparagraph (B),  covered service  means full-time employment completed after October 1, 1998— (I)  as a teacher described in clause (i) or (ii) of such subparagraph; or  (II) which would have been considered qualifying service for the benefits under this section as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act . (d)  Regulations  The Secretary is authorized to promulgate such regulations as may be necessary to carry out the provisions of this section, including regulations—  (1) to facilitate the transition of the program carried out under this section as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act ; and (2) to ensure that educators receive credits for past eligible service which may have been completed before the date of enactment of the  EDUCATORS for America Act , except that borrowers shall not be eligible to receive both loan cancellation under this section as in effect before such date of enactment and loan credits under this section after such date of enactment. (e)  Construction  Nothing in this section shall be construed to authorize any refunding of any amounts credited to a loan in accordance with this section.  (f)  List  If the list of schools in which an educator may perform service pursuant to subsection (c)(2)(A) is not available before May 1 of any year, the Secretary may use the list for the year preceding the year for which the determination is made to make such service determination.  (g)  Additional eligibility provisions  (1)  Continued eligibility  Any educator who performs service in a school that—  (A)  meets the requirements of subsection (c)(2)(A) in any year during such service; and  (B)  in a subsequent year fails to meet the requirements of such subsection,  may continue to serve as an educator in such school and shall be eligible for the additional monthly credit amount pursuant to subsection (c)(2)(A).   (2)  Prevention of double benefits  No borrower may, for the same voluntary service, receive a benefit under both this section and—  (A)  section 428J;   (B)  section 428K; or   (C) subtitle D of title I of the National and Community Service Act of 1990 ( 42 U.S.C. 12601 et seq. ). (h)  Definitions  (1)  Covered loan  (A)  In General Subject to subparagraph (B), the term  covered loan  means a loan that is not in default that is— (i)  a Federal Direct Stafford Loan, a Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, or a Federal Direct PLUS Loan, under this part; or  (ii)  a loan amount for a Federal Direct Consolidation Loan only to the extent that such loan amount was used to repay a Federal Direct Stafford Loan, a Federal Direct Unsubsidized Stafford Loan, or a Federal Direct PLUS Loan under this part.  (B)  Exclusion of parent PLUS loans  A covered loan does not include any of the following loans under this part:  (i)  A Federal Direct PLUS Loan made to the parents of a dependent student.  (ii)  A loan made under section 455(g), to the extent that such loan was used to repay—  (I)  a loan made to the parents of a dependent student under section 428B; or  (II)  a Federal Direct PLUS Loan made to the parents of a dependent student.  (2)  Eligible educator borrower In this section, the term  eligible educator borrower  means an individual who is employed on a full-time basis as an educator, as defined under section 200. (3)  Year For the purpose of this section, the term  year  where applied to service as a teacher means an academic year as defined by the Secretary.
 .  (b)  Technical amendment Section 455(m)(4) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1087e(m)(4) ) is amended by striking  , or 460 . (c)  Report to Congress  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, the Secretary shall prepare and submit to Congress a report containing information about the impact of the amendment made under subsection (a), which shall include data on the participation rate of eligible borrowers, the dollar amount of benefits to participants, and the performance of servicers. 
