 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Rural Telehealth Access Task Force Act .
 2.  Rural telehealth access task force  (a)  Establishment Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Commission shall establish a task force to be known as the  Rural Telehealth Access Task Force  (in this section referred to as the  Task Force ). (b)  Membership  The Task Force shall be composed of the following:  (1)  The Assistant Secretary of Commerce for Communications and Information.  (2)  The Secretary of Agriculture.  (3)  The Secretary of Health and Human Services.  (4)  The Chairperson of the Federal Communications Commission.  (5)  The Secretary of Veterans Affairs.  (c)  Chairperson  The Chairperson of the Federal Communications Commission shall serve as the Chairperson of the Task Force.  (d)  Duties  The Task Force shall carry out the following duties:  (1)  Identify barriers and opportunities to telehealth service in rural areas.  (2)  Identify barriers to, and opportunities for, utilization of telehealth services in rural areas.  (3)  Identify opportunities for coordination among covered agencies and across high-cost programs to prevent duplication of effort or overbuilding of existing or planned broadband internet access service projects.  (4)  Evaluate the adoption and usage rates of telehealth services in rural areas.  (5)  Evaluate how expanded access to telehealth services can address health disparities in rural patients.  (6)  Determine how to expand access to broadband internet access service for telehealth services in rural areas, including—  (A)  rural health systems; and  (B)  internet service providers.  (7)  Develop recommendations on how to use current high cost broadband resources to expand access to telehealth services in rural areas.  (e)  Information sharing  The covered agencies shall share information with the Task Force on existing or planned broadband internet access service projects that may be useful in carrying out the duties of the Task Force in subsection (c).  (f)  Report  Not later than 18 months after the date of enactment of this section, the Commission shall submit to Congress a report that—  (1)  details the findings and recommendations of the Task Force; and  (2)  includes an identification of other telehealth issues or recommendations that the Task Forces determines is appropriate.  (g)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  broadband internet access service The term  broadband internet access service  has the meaning give such term in section 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations. (2)  Commission The term  Commission  means the Federal Communications Commission. (3)  Covered agency The term  covered agency  means— (A)  the Commission;  (B)  the Department of Agriculture;  (C)  the Department of Health and Human Services; and  (D)  the National Telecommunications and Information Administration.  (4)  High-cost program The term  high-cost program  includes the following: (A) Subpart D of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (commonly known as  Universal Service Support for High Cost Areas ). (B) Subpart J of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (commonly known as the  Remote Areas Fund ). (C) Subpart K of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (commonly known as the  Interstate Common Line Support Mechanism for Rate-of-Return Carriers ). (D) Subpart L of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (commonly known as the  Mobility Fund ). (E) Subpart M of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations (commonly known as the  High Cost Loop Support for Rate-of-Return Carriers ). (F)  The connected care pilot program (85 Fed. Reg. 19896).  (G) Section 1734 of title 7, Code of Federal Regulations (commonly known as the  Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grant Program ). (H)  The COVID–19 telehealth program (86 Fed. Reg. 8356).  (I) Section 902 of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 ( Public Law 116–133 ). (J) Section 905(c) of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2021 ( Public Law 116–133 ). (5)  Rural; rural area The terms  rural  and  rural area  mean any area other than a city or town that has a population greater than 50,000 inhabitants.
