
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Officer Brian D. Sicknick Congressional Gold Medal Act .
  2.  Findings  The Congress finds the following: 
 (1)  The United States Capitol is the most recognizable symbol of liberty and democracy throughout the world and those who guard the Capitol guard our freedom.   (2)  Officer Brian D. Sicknick sacrificed his life to protect the lives of hundreds of staff and Members of Congress. 
 (3)  Officer Brian D. Sicknick was the youngest of three sons.   (4)  Officer Brian D. Sicknick graduated from high school in 1997 and joined the New Jersey Air National Guard the same year. 
 (5)  Officer Brian D. Sicknick was deployed overseas to Saudi Arabia in Operation Southern Watch in 1999 and to Kyrgyzstan in support of the war in Afghanistan.   (6)  Officer Brian D. Sicknick was honorably discharged in 2003. 
 (7)  Officer Brian D. Sicknick joined the United States Capitol Police in 2008.   (8)  Officer Brian D. Sicknick most recently served in the United States Capitol Police’s First Responder’s Unit. 
 (9)  Officer Brian D. Sicknick responded to the riots on Wednesday, January 6, 2021.   (10)  Officer Brian D. Sicknick was injured while physically engaging with rioters and ultimately succumbed to his injuries on January 7, 2021. 
 (11)  Officer Brian D. Sicknick was the fourth United States Capitol Police officer in history to be killed in the line of duty. 
  3.  Congressional gold medal   (a)  Presentation authorized  The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the presentation, on behalf of the Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration of Officer Brian D. Sicknick, for giving his life to protect the Capitol and the Members and staff of Congress on January 6, 2021. 
 (b)  Design and striking For the purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (referred to in this Act as the  Secretary ) shall strike the gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary.  (c)  Transfer of medal  Following the award of the gold medal under subsection (a), the gold medal shall be given to Officer Brian D. Sicknick’s parents, Charles and Gladys Sicknick. 

 4.  Duplicate medals  The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3 under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses, and the cost of the gold medal. 
  5.  Status of medals   (a)  National medals The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of  chapter 51  of title 31, United States Code.
 (b)  Numismatic items  For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items. 
 