 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  National Firearms Amendments Act of 2021 .
 2.  Semiautomatic rifle with capacity to accept detachable magazine treated as firearm under National Firearms Act  (a)  In general  Section 5845(a)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended— (1) by striking  ; and (8) a destructive device.  and inserting  ; (8) a destructive device; and (9) a semiautomatic rifle or shotgun that has the capacity to accept a detachable ammunition feeding device. ; and (2) by adding at the end the following: The term  detachable ammunition feeding device  means an ammunition feeding device that can be removed from a firearm without disassembly of the firearm action. The term  ammunition feeding device  means a magazine, belt, drum, feed strip, or similar device, but does not include an attached tubular device which is only capable of operating with .22 caliber rimfire ammunition. The term  semiautomatic rifle or shotgun  means any repeating rifle or shotgun which utilizes a portion of the energy of a firing cartridge to extract the fired cartridge case and chamber the next round, and which requires a separate pull of the trigger to fire each cartridge.. (b)  Applicability  Any person who, on the date of the enactment of this Act, lawfully owns or possesses a semiautomatic rifle or shotgun (as defined in section 5845(a) of such Code, as amended by this Act) that has the capacity to accept a detachable ammunition feeding device (as defined in such section) shall, not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of this Act, register the semiautomatic rifle or shotgun in accordance with section 5841 of such Code. Such registration shall become a part of the National Firearms Registration and Transfer Record required to be maintained by such section. The prohibition on possession of an unregistered firearm under section 5861 of such Code shall not apply to possession of such a semiautomatic rifle or shotgun that has the capacity to accept such a detachable ammunition feeding device on any date that is 120 days or less after the enactment of this Act.  (c)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Bureau of Alcohol, Tobacco, Firearms, and Explosives such sums as are necessary to carry out this Act. 
