 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Broadband Competition and Efficient Deployment Act .
 2.  Application of NEPA and NHPA to collocation of telecommunications service facilities  (a)  NEPA exemption A covered project shall not be subject to the requirements of section 102(2)(C) of the National Environmental Policy Act of 1969 ( 42 U.S.C. 4332(2)(C) ). (b)  National Historic Preservation Act exemption  A covered project shall not be considered an undertaking under section 300320 of title 54, United States Code.  (c)  Definitions  In this section:   (1)  Commission The term  Commission  means the Federal Communications Commission.  (2)  Covered project The term  covered project  means a project— (A)  for the placement, construction, or modification of a telecommunications service facility in or on eligible support infrastructure; and  (B)  for which a permit, license, or approval from the Commission is required or that is otherwise subject to the jurisdiction of the Commission.  (3)  Eligible support infrastructure The term  eligible support infrastructure  means infrastructure that supports or houses a facility for communication by wire (or is designed to and capable of supporting or housing such a facility) at the time when a complete request to a State or local government or instrumentality thereof for authorization to place, construct, or modify a telecommunications service facility in or on the infrastructure is received by the government or instrumentality. (4)  State The term  State  means the 50 States, the District of Columbia, the territories and possessions of the United States, and each federally recognized Indian Tribe. (5)  Telecommunications service The term  telecommunications service  has the meaning given such term in section 3 of the Communications Act of 1934 ( 47 U.S.C. 153 ). (6)  Telecommunications service facility The term  telecommunications service facility  means a facility for the provision of any interstate or intrastate telecommunications service.
