
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Grandfamily Housing Act of 2021 .
  2.  Grant program for grandfamily housing   (a)  In general  Title II of the LEGACY Act of 2003 is amended by adding at the end the following: 

 206.  Grant program 
 (a)  In general  The Secretary shall, not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this section, establish a program to provide grants to owners of intergenerational dwelling units.   (b)  Application  To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an owner of an intergenerational dwelling unit shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may reasonably require. 
 (c)  Use of grant amounts  An owner of an intergenerational dwelling unit that receives a grant under this section shall use amounts provided to cover costs associated with—   (1)  employing a service coordinator to— 
 (A)  provide onsite services to intergeneration families, including tutoring, health care services, and afterschool care; and    (B)  coordinate with any local kinship navigator program (as described in section 474(a)(7) of the Social Security Act); 
 (2)  facilitating outreach to intergenerational families as described in subsection (c);   (3)  planning and providing services to intergenerational families; and 
 (4)  maintaining spaces within the property which contains the intergenerational dwelling unit used for programing and services for intergenerational families.   (d)  Outreach   (1)  In general  An owner of an intergenerational dwelling unit that receives a grant shall engage with intergenerational families in the community surrounding the property that contains the grandfamily housing owned by the grant recipient by— 
 (A)  performing periodic informational outreach; and   (B)  planning and executing events for intergenerational families. 
 (2)  Coordination  Outreach shall, where possible, be in coordination with a local kinship navigator program (as described in section 474(a)(7) of the Social Security Act) or a comparable program or entity in the State in which the intergenerational dwelling unit is located. 
 .   (b)  Report  Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of this section, the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development shall submit to the Congress a report that— 
 (1)  describes the effectiveness of the grant program establish pursuant to section 206 of the LEGACY Act of 2003; and   (2)  makes recommendations for legislative changes that could allow for the grant program to be more effective. 
 (c)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 and 2023. 
 