 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Community Broadband Mapping Act .
 2.  Rural Broadband Access Grants Section 601 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 ( 7 U.S.C. 950bb ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (l)  Authority To make grants to certain entities To collect broadband infrastructure data Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary may make a grant under this section to a unit of local government, an economic development or other community organization, an electric cooperative (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act) that sells electric energy to persons in rural areas, a telephone cooperative, or an internet service provider that has not more than 100,000 subscribers, for the purpose of enabling the collection of data relating to where broadband infrastructure is located and which homes are provided with non-satellite broadband service, without regard to any household service percentage requirement, and in determining the eligibility of any such entity for such a grant, the term  rural area  means an area that is not in an urbanized area or urban cluster with a population of 25,000 or more as determined by the Bureau of the Census. . 
 3.  Expansion of Middle Mile Infrastructure Into Rural Areas Grants Section 602 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 ( 7 U.S.C. 950bb–1 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (h)  Authority To make grants to certain entities To collect broadband infrastructure data Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary may make a grant under this section to a unit of local government, an economic development or other community organization, an electric cooperative (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act) that sells electric energy to persons in rural areas, a telephone cooperative, or an internet service provider that has not more than 100,000 subscribers, for the purpose of enabling the collection of data relating to where broadband infrastructure is located and which homes are provided with non-satellite broadband service, without regard to any household service percentage requirement, and in determining the eligibility of any such entity for such a grant, the term  rural area  means an area that is not in an urbanized area or urban cluster with a population of 25,000 or more as determined by the Bureau of the Census. . 
 4.  Innovative Broadband Advancement Grants Section 603 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 ( 7 U.S.C. 950bb–2 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (f)  Authority To make grants to certain entities To collect broadband infrastructure data Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary may make a grant under this section to a unit of local government, an economic development or other community organization, an electric cooperative (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act) that sells electric energy to persons in rural areas, a telephone cooperative, or an internet service provider that has not more than 100,000 subscribers, for the purpose of enabling the collection of data relating to where broadband infrastructure is located and which homes are provided with non-satellite broadband service, without regard to any household service percentage requirement, and in determining the eligibility of any such entity for such a grant, the term  rural area  means an area that is not in an urbanized area or urban cluster with a population of 25,000 or more as determined by the Bureau of the Census. . 
 5.  Community Connect Grants Section 604 of the Rural Electrification Act of 1936 ( 7 U.S.C. 950bb–3 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (h)  Authority To make grants to certain entities To collect broadband infrastructure data Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary may make a grant under this section to a unit of local government, an economic development or other community organization, an electric cooperative (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act) that sells electric energy to persons in rural areas, a telephone cooperative, or an internet service provider that has not more than 100,000 subscribers, for the purpose of enabling the collection of data relating to where broadband infrastructure is located and which homes are provided with non-satellite broadband service, without regard to any household service percentage requirement, and in determining the eligibility of any such entity for such a grant, the term  rural area  means an area that is not in an urbanized area or urban cluster with a population of 25,000 or more as determined by the Bureau of the Census. . 
 6.  Distance Learning and Telemedicine Grants Section 2333 of the Food, Agriculture, Conservation and Trade Act of 1990 ( 7 U.S.C. 950aaa–2 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (j)  Authority To make grants to certain entities To collect broadband infrastructure data Notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary may make a grant under this section to a unit of local government, an economic development or other community organization, an electric cooperative (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act) that sells electric energy to persons in rural areas, a telephone cooperative, or an internet service provider that has not more than 100,000 subscribers, for the purpose of enabling the collection of data relating to where broadband infrastructure is located and which homes are provided with non-satellite broadband service, without regard to any household service percentage requirement, and in determining the eligibility of any such entity for such a grant, the term  rural area  means an area that is not in an urbanized area or urban cluster with a population of 25,000 or more as determined by the Bureau of the Census. . 
 7.  ReConnect Grants Section 779 of division A of the Consolidated Appropriations Act, 2018 (132 Stat. 399;  Public Law 115–141 ) is amended by inserting :  Provided further , That, notwithstanding any other provision of this section, the Secretary may make a grant under this section to a unit of local government, an economic development or other community organization, an electric cooperative (as defined in section 3 of the Federal Power Act) that sells electric energy to persons in rural areas, a telephone cooperative, or an internet service provider that has not more than 100,000 subscribers, for the purpose of enabling the collection of data relating to where broadband infrastructure is located and which homes are provided with non-satellite broadband service, without regard to any household service percentage requirement, and in determining the eligibility of any such entity for such a grant, the term  rural area  means an area that is not in an urbanized area or urban cluster with a population of 25,000 or more as determined by the Bureau of the Census before the period.
 8.  Effective date  The amendments made by this Act shall take effect 1 year after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
