 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  One Bill, One Subject Transparency Act .
 2.  One subject per bill  (a)  One subject  Each bill or joint resolution shall embrace no more than one subject.  (b)  Subject in title  The subject of a bill or joint resolution shall be clearly and descriptively expressed in the title.  (c)  Appropriation bills  An appropriations bill shall not contain any general legislation or change of existing law provision which is not germane to the subject matter of the underlying bill. This subsection does not prohibit any provision imposing limitations upon the expenditure of appropriated funds. 
 3.  Enforcement  (a)  Multiple subjects in title  If the title of an Act or joint resolution addresses two or more unrelated subjects, then the entire Act or joint resolution is void.  (b)  Provisions not expressed in title  If an Act or joint resolution contains provisions concerning a subject that is not clearly and descriptively expressed in its title, those provisions shall be void.  (c)  Appropriation provisions outside subcommittee jurisdiction  If an Act appropriating funds contains a provision outside of the jurisdiction of the relevant subcommittee of the Committees on Appropriations of the House and of the Senate, and therefore outside the subject of the bill, then such provision shall be void.  (d)  Provisions of appropriation bills not germane to subject matter  If an Act appropriating funds contains general legislation or change of existing law provision not germane to the subject matter of the underlying bill, then every such provision shall be void.  (e)  Commencement of an action  Any person, including a Member of the House of Representatives or a Member of the Senate, aggrieved by the enforcement or threat of enforcement of Acts that do not comply with section 2 shall have a cause of action under sections 2201 and 2202 of title 28, United States Code, against the United States to seek appropriate relief, including an injunction against the enforcement of any law, the passage of which did not conform to section 2 or this section. The cause of action only applies to an Act or joint resolution signed into law on or after the date of enactment of this Act.  (f)  State of review  In any judicial action brought pursuant to subsection (e), the standard of review shall be de novo. 
