
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Silencers Help Us Save Hearing Act  or the  SHUSH Act .
  2.  Equal treatment of silencers and firearms   (a)  In general  Section 5845(a)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  (7) any silencer  and all that follows through  ; and (8)  and inserting  ; and (7) .
 (b)  Effective date 
 (1)  In general  Except as otherwise provided in this subsection, the amendment made by this section shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act.   (2)  Transfers  In the case of the tax imposed by section 5811 of such Code, the amendment made by this section shall apply with respect to transfers after October 22, 2015. 

 3.  Treatment of certain silencers  Section 5841  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by adding at the end the following:   (f)  Firearm silencers A person acquiring or possessing a firearm silencer in accordance with  Chapter 44  of title 18, United States Code, shall be treated as meeting any registration and licensing requirements of the National Firearms Act (as in effect on the day before the date of the enactment of this subsection) with respect to such silencer. . 

 4.  Preemption of certain State laws in relation to firearm silencers Section 927 of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:  Notwithstanding the preceding sentence, a law of a State or a political subdivision of a State that, as a condition of lawfully making, transferring, using, possessing, or transporting a firearm silencer in or affecting interstate or foreign commerce, imposes a tax on any such conduct, or a marking, recordkeeping or registration requirement with respect to the firearm silencer, shall have no force or effect. .
  5.  Silencers and mufflers not to be Federally regulated   (a)  Definitions  Section 921(a) of title 18, United States Code, is amended— 
 (1) in paragraph (3), by striking  (C) any firearm muffler or firearm silencer; or (D)  and inserting  or (C) ; and  (2)  by striking paragraph (24). 
 (b)  Penalties  Section 924 of such title is amended—   (1)  in subsection (c)— 
 (A) in paragraph (1)(B)(ii) by striking  , or is equipped with a firearm silencer or firearm muffler ; and  (B) in paragraph (1)(C)(ii), by striking  or is equipped with a firearm silencer or firearm muffler, ; and
 (2) in subsection (o), by striking  or is equipped with a firearm silencer or muffler, .  (c)  Carrying of concealed firearms by qualified law enforcement officers  Section 926B(e)(3) of such title is amended— 
 (1) in subparagraph (A), by adding  and  at the end;  (2)  by striking subparagraph (B); and 
 (3)  by redesignating subparagraph (C) as subparagraph (B).   (d)  Carrying of concealed firearms by qualified retired law enforcement officers  Section 926C(e)(1)(C) of such title is amended— 
 (1) in clause (i), by adding  and  at the end; and  (2)  by striking clause (ii). 

