 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Water Debt Relief Act of 2021 .
 2.  Emergency relief program Part F of the Safe Drinking Water Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300j–21 et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 1466.  Emergency relief program  (a)  Emergency relief program  The Administrator shall establish and carry out a residential emergency relief program to provide payments to public water systems to reimburse such public water systems for providing forgiveness of arrearages and fees incurred by eligible residential customers before the date of enactment of this section to help such eligible residential customers retain water service.  (b)  Conditions  To receive funds under this section, a public water system shall agree to—  (1)  except as provided in paragraph (2), use such funds to forgive all arrearages and fees relating to nonpayment or arrearages incurred by eligible residential customers before the date of enactment of this section;  (2)  if forgiveness of all arrearages and fees described in paragraph (1) is not possible given the amount of funds received, use such funds to reduce such arrearages and fees for each eligible residential customer by, to the extent practicable, a consistent percentage;  (3)  take no action that negatively affects the credit score of an eligible residential customer, or pursue any type of collection action against such eligible residential customer, during the 5-year period that begins on the date on which the public water system receives such funds; and  (4)  not disconnect or interrupt the service of any eligible residential customer as a result of nonpayment or arrearages during such 5-year period.  (c)  Eligible customers  To be eligible for forgiveness or reduction of arrearages and fees pursuant to the program established under subsection (a), a residential customer of a public water system shall have accrued new arrearages on or after March 1, 2020.  (d)  Administrative expenses  The Administrator may authorize—  (1)  States to implement the program established under subsection (a); and  (2)  a State implementing such program to use up to 4 percent of funds made available to carry out such program in such State for administrative expenses.  (e)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $4,000,000,000, to remain available until expended. 
 . 
