 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Opportunity To Address College Hunger Act .
 2.  Notification regarding SNAP for students receiving Federal work-study assistance Section 443 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1087–53 ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (f)  Notification regarding SNAP  (1)  In general  An institution receiving a grant under this part shall send a notification (by email or other electronic means) to each eligible student informing the student of their potential eligibility for participation in SNAP and the process for obtaining more information, confirming eligibility, and accessing benefits under that program. The notification shall be developed by the Secretary of Education in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, and shall include details on eligibility requirements for participation in SNAP that a student must satisfy. The notification shall be, to the extent practicable, specific to the student’s State of residence and shall provide contact information for the local office where an application for SNAP may be made.  (2)  Evidence of participation in federally financed work-study program The notification under paragraph (1) shall include an official document confirming that the recipient is an eligible student sufficient for purposes of demonstrating that the exclusion from ineligibility for participation in SNAP under section 6(e)(4) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ( 7 U.S.C. 2015(e)(4) ) applies to the student. (3)  Guidance  The Secretary of Education, in consultation with the Secretary of Agriculture, shall provide guidance to States and institutions of higher education on how to identify and communicate with students who are likely to be eligible for SNAP, including those eligible for a State or federally financed work-study program.  (4)  Definitions  For purposes of this subsection:  (A) The term  eligible student  means a student receiving work-study assistance under this part. (B) The term  SNAP  means the supplemental nutrition assistance program (as defined in section 3(t) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ( 7 U.S.C. 2012(t) )). . 
