 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Indigenous Peoples Exchange and Economic Cooperation Act .
 2.  Statement of policy It is the policy of the United States to facilitate contacts and cooperation, including commercial relationships, between Native American Tribes and Indigenous peoples in the Western Hemisphere, in accordance with regional trade agreements and the Presidential memorandum titled  Memorandum on Tribal Consultation and Strengthening Nation-to-Nation Relationships , dated January 26, 2021, which directs executive branches to engage in  regular, meaningful, and robust consultation with Tribal officials .
 3.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Native American Tribes The term  Native American Tribe  means any federally recognized Tribe. (2)  Indigenous peoples The term  Indigenous peoples  means peoples residing in foreign countries and territories in the Western Hemisphere who have historical ties to a particular territory and are culturally or historically distinct from the politically dominant population.
 4.  Strategy  (a)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Commerce, in coordination with the Secretary of Interior, shall submit to the appropriate congressional committees a strategy, in consultation with the individuals listed in subsection (b), to promote and facilitate—  (1)  cross-investments and export opportunities between Native American Tribes and Indigenous peoples in Tribal businesses and commercial enterprises that involve Indigenous peoples, such as sustainable natural resource management, agricultural development, timber, fish and other seafood, energy, handicraft and art production, or entrepreneurship for economic growth and diversification; and  (2)  the development of supply chains for United States entities that include certified products produced by Native American Tribes and Indigenous peoples.  (b)  Consultation required  The individuals referred to in subsection (a) are the following:  (1)  The President of the Inter-American Foundation.  (2)  The Secretary of State.  (3)  The United States Trade Representative.  (4)  The Secretary of Agriculture.  (5)  The Secretary of Energy.  (6)  The Administrator of the Small Business Administration.  (7)  The Administrator and the Advisor for Indigenous Peoples Issues of the United States Agency for International Development.  (8)  The Chief Executive Officer of the United States International Development Finance Corporation.  (9)  The Chief Executive Officer of the Millennium Challenge Corporation.  (10)  Representatives of Native American Tribes.  (11)  Representatives of civil society organizations advocating for the rights or interests of Indigenous peoples.  (c)  Appropriate congressional committees In this section, the term  appropriate congressional committees  means— (1)  the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Foreign Affairs, and the Committee on Natural Resources of the House of Representatives; and  (2)  the Committee on Appropriations, the Committee on Foreign Relations, the Committee on Energy and Natural Resources, and the Committee on Indian Affairs of the Senate. 
 5.  United states assistance to support indigenous peoples  In order to improve the capacity of Indigenous peoples to engage in and benefit from increased trade and investment relationships, the Inter-American Foundation, Secretary of State, United States Agency for International Development, and Millennium Challenge Corporation shall—  (1)  consult with representatives of civil society organizations, especially organizations comprised of or representing the interests of Indigenous peoples; and  (2)  provide assistance to countries in the Western Hemisphere in a manner that promotes and facilitates entrepreneurship among Indigenous peoples—  (A)  by strengthening the capacity of civil society organizations and local governments; and  (B)  by supporting community-led and community-based projects including sustainable natural resource management, agricultural development, and handicraft production. 
 6.  Assistance to support activities  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary of Commerce $3,000,000 to carry out this Act. 
