 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Comparison of Sustainable Transportation Act  or the  COST Act .
 2.  Cost analysis of converting Federal fleet to electric vehicles  (a)  Cost analysis  The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct—  (1)  an analysis of the costs of replacing the light-duty vehicles in the Federal fleet that are fueled by gasoline with electric vehicles, including plug-in hybrid electric vehicles; and  (2)  an analysis of the costs of replacing the light-duty vehicles in the Federal fleet that are fueled by gasoline with flex-fuel ethanol vehicles.  (b)  Inclusions  Each analysis conducted under subsection (a) shall include the costs necessary for deployment of infrastructure for each applicable type of electric vehicle or flex-fuel ethanol vehicle that it is feasible to be used in the Federal fleet nationwide.  (c)  Publication  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall publish online the cost analyses conducted under subsection (a). 
 3.  Analysis of lifecycle emissions of E85 capable flex-fuel and electric vehicles  (a)  Analysis  The Secretary of Energy, utilizing the most recent Greenhouse gases, Regulated Emissions, and Energy use in Transportation model (commonly referred to as the “GREET model”) developed by Argonne National Laboratory, shall conduct a lifecycle analysis of greenhouse gas emissions from each of the following types of vehicles:   (1)  A conventional gasoline vehicle.  (2)  An E85 capable flex-fuel vehicle.  (3)  A battery electric vehicle.  (b)  Report  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Energy shall submit to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives, and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate a report on the lifecycle analyses conducted under subsection (a).  
 4.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1) E 85 The term  E85  means a fuel containing 85 percent ethanol and 15 percent gasoline. (2)  Federal fleet The term  Federal fleet  means the fleet of federally owned or operated motor vehicles as reported in the most recent Federal Fleet Report of the General Services Administration. (3)  Light-duty vehicle The term  light-duty vehicle  means a vehicle with a gross vehicle weight rating of less than or equal to 8,500 pounds. 
