
 1.  Short title  This Act may be cited as the  Old Pascua Community Land Acquisition Act .
  2.  Definitions  In this Act: 
 (1)  Compact-designated area The term  Compact Designated Area  means the area south of West Grant Road, east of Interstate 10, north of West Calle Adelanto, and west of North 15th Avenue in the City of Tucson, Arizona, as provided specifically in the Pascua Yaqui Tribe—State of Arizona Amended and Restated Gaming Compact signed in 2021.  (2)  Tribe The term  Tribe  means the Pascua Yaqui Tribe of Arizona, a federally recognized Indian tribe.
 (3)  Indian tribe The term  Indian Tribe —  (A)  means any Indian tribe, band, nation, or other organized group or community, including any Alaska Native village that is recognized as eligible for the special programs and services provided by the United States to Indians because of their status as Indians; and 
 (B)  does not include any Alaska Native regional or village corporation.   (4)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of the Interior.

 3.  Land to be held in trust  Upon the request of the Tribe, the Secretary shall accept and take into trust for the benefit of the Tribe, subject to all valid existing rights, any land within the Compact-Designated Area that is owned by Tribe. 
  4.  Application of current law  Gaming conducted by the Tribe in the Compact-Designated Area shall be subject to— 
 (1) the Indian Gaming Regulatory Act ( 25 U.S.C. 2701 et seq. ); and  (2)  sections 1166 through 1168 of title 18, United States Code. 

 5.  Reaffirmation of status and actions 
 (a)  Administration  Land placed into trust pursuant to this Act shall—   (1)  be a part of the Pascua Yaqui Reservation and administered in accordance with the laws and regulations generally applicable to land held in trust by the United States for an Indian Tribe; and 
 (2)  be deemed to have been acquired and taken into trust on September 18, 1978.   (b)  Rules of construction  Nothing in this Act shall— 
 (1)  enlarge, impair, or otherwise affect any right or claim of the Tribe to any land or interest in land in existence before the date of the enactment of this Act;   (2)  affect any water right of the Tribe in existence before the date of the enactment of this Act; 
 (3)  terminate or limit any access in any way to any right-of-way or right-of-use issued, granted, or permitted before the date of the enactment of this Act; or   (4)  alter or diminish the right of the Tribe to seek to have additional land taken into trust by the United States for the benefit of the Tribe. 

