 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Beilenson Trailhead Designation Act .
 2.  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1) Congressman Anthony  Tony  Beilenson served in the California State Assembly from 1963 to 1967, and in the California State Senate from 1967 to 1976. (2)  Congressman Beilenson began his tenure in the United States House of Representatives in 1977 and served in Congress for 20 years, until 1997.  (3)  At different times during his tenure, Congressman Beilenson represented the people of West Los Angeles, Santa Monica, Malibu, Westwood, Encino, Sherman Oaks, Canyon Country, and Calabasas.  (4)  Congressman Beilenson was a well-respected member of the California State Legislature, known for his legislative efforts on environmental protection, consumer protection, family planning, public health, and welfare reform.  (5)  During his time in the United States House of Representatives, Congressman Beilenson served on the Rules Committee and as Chair of the House Permanent Select Committee on Intelligence during the first Gulf War.  (6)  Congressman Beilenson dedicated significant time and effort to environmental issues during his time serving in the United States House of Representatives, including contributing to the passage of legislation to fund the formation of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area.  (7)  Congressman Beilenson considered his contributions to the designation of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area his greatest legislative achievement and supported the expansion of the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area throughout his time in Congress and into retirement.  (8) Congress and the Los Angeles community commemorate the environmental legacy of Congressman Beilenson by naming the Encinal Trailhead in Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area after Congressman Anthony  Tony  Beilenson.
 3. Anthony  Tony  Beilenson Trailhead (a)  Designation The Encinal Trailhead on the Backbone Trail in the Santa Monica Mountains National Recreation Area shall hereafter be known and designated as the Anthony  Tony  Beilenson Trailhead. (b)  References Any reference in a law, map, regulation, document, paper, or other record of the United States to the trailhead referred to in subsection (a) shall be deemed to be a reference to the Anthony  Tony  Beilenson Trailhead. 
