
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Native American Child Protection Act .
  2.  Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act Amendments The Indian Child Protection and Family Violence Prevention Act ( 25 U.S.C. 3202  et seq.) is amended as follows:
 (1) By amending section 403(3)(A) ( 25 U.S.C. 3202(3)(A) ) to read as follows:   (A)  in any case in which— 
 (i) 
 (I)  a child is dead or exhibits evidence of skin bruising, bleeding, malnutrition, failure to thrive, burns, fracture of any bone, subdural hematoma, soft tissue swelling; and   (II)  such condition is not justifiably explained or may not be the product of an accidental occurrence; or 
 (ii)  a child is subjected to sexual assault, sexual molestation, sexual exploitation, sexual contact, or prostitution;  .   (2) In section 409 ( 25 U.S.C. 3208 )—
 (A)  in subsection (a)—   (i) by striking  The Secretary of Health and Human Services, acting through the Service and in cooperation with the Bureau  and inserting  The Service, in cooperation with the Bureau ; and
 (ii) by striking  sexual abuse  and inserting  abuse or neglect ;  (B) in subsection (b) through the end of the section, by striking  Secretary of Health and Human Services  each place it appears and inserting  Service ;
 (C) in subsection (b)(1), by inserting after  Any Indian tribe or intertribal consortium  the following:  , on its own or in partnership with an urban Indian organization, ;  (D) in subsections (b)(2)(B) and (d), by striking  such Secretary  each place it appears and inserting  the Service ;
 (E)  by amending subsection (c) to read as follows:    (c)  Culturally appropriate treatment  In awarding grants under this section, the Service shall encourage the use of culturally appropriate treatment services and programs that respond to the unique cultural values, customs, and traditions of applicant Indian Tribes.  ; 
 (F) in subsection (d)(2), by striking  the Secretary  and inserting  the Service ;  (G)  by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (f); 
 (H)  by inserting after subsection (d) the following:    (e)  Report Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of the  Native American Child Protection Act , the Service shall submit a report to Congress on the award of grants under this section. The report shall contain—
 (1)  a description of treatment and services for which grantees have used funds awarded under this section; and   (2)  any other information that the Service requires.  ; and 
 (I)  by amending subsection (f) (as so redesignated by subparagraph (G) of this paragraph), to read as follows:    (f)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $30,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2027.  . 
 (3) In section 410 ( 25 U.S.C. 3209 )—  (A)  in the heading— 
 (i) by inserting  National  before  Indian ; and  (ii) by striking  Centers  and inserting  Center ;
 (B)  by amending subsections (a) and (b) to read as follows:    (a)  Establishment Not later than 1 year after the date of the enactment of the  Native American Child Protection Act , the Secretary shall establish a National Indian Child Resource and Family Services Center.
 (b)  Report Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of the  Native American Child Protection Act , the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, shall submit a report to Congress on the status of the National Indian Child Resource and Family Services Center. ;   (C)  in subsection (c)— 
 (i) by striking  Each  and inserting  The ; and  (ii) by striking  multidisciplinary ;
 (D)  in subsection (d)—   (i) in the text before paragraph (1), by striking  Each  and inserting  The ;
 (ii) in paragraph (1), by striking  and inter-tribal consortia  and inserting  inter-tribal consortia, and urban Indian organizations ;  (iii) in paragraph (2), by inserting  urban Indian organizations,  after  tribal organizations, ;
 (iv)  in paragraph (3)—   (I) by inserting  and technical assistance  after training; and
 (II) by striking  and to tribal organizations  and inserting  , Tribal organizations, and urban Indian organizations ;  (v)  in paragraph (4)— 
 (I) by inserting  , State,  after  Federal ; and  (II) by striking  and tribal  and inserting  Tribal, and urban Indian ; and
 (vi)  by amending paragraph (5) to read as follows:    (5)  develop model intergovernmental agreements between Tribes and States, and other materials that provide examples of how Federal, State, and Tribal governments can develop effective relationships and provide for maximum cooperation in the furtherance of prevention, investigation, treatment, and prosecution of incidents of family violence and child abuse and child neglect involving Indian children and families.  ; and 
 (E)  in subsection (e)—   (i) in the heading, by striking  Multidisciplinary team  and inserting  Team ;
 (ii) in the text before paragraph (1), by striking  Each multidisciplinary  and inserting  The ; and  (F)  by amending subsections (f), (g), and (h) to read as follows: 

 (f)  Center advisory board  The Secretary shall establish an advisory board to advise and assist the National Indian Child Resource and Family Services Center in carrying out its activities under this section. The advisory board shall consist of 12 members appointed by the Secretary from Indian Tribes, Tribal organizations, and urban Indian organizations with expertise in child abuse and child neglect. Members shall serve without compensation, but may be reimbursed for travel and other expenses while carrying out the duties of the board. The advisory board shall assist the Center in coordinating programs, identifying training and technical assistance materials, and developing intergovernmental agreements relating to family violence, child abuse, and child neglect.   (g)  Application of Indian Self-Determination Act to the Center  The National Indian Child Resource and Family Services Center shall be subject to the provisions of the Indian Self-Determination Act. The Secretary may also contract for the operation of the Center with a nonprofit Indian organization governed by an Indian-controlled board of directors that have substantial experience in child abuse, child neglect, and family violence involving Indian children and families. 
 (h)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $3,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2027.  .   (4) In section 411 ( 25 U.S.C. 3210 )—
 (A)  in subsection (d)—   (i)  in paragraph (1)— 
 (I) in subparagraph (A), by striking  abuse and child neglect  and inserting  abuse, neglect, or both ;  (II) in subparagraph (B), by striking  and  at the end; and
 (III)  by inserting after subparagraph (C), the following:    (D)  development of agreements between Tribes, States, or private agencies on the coordination of child abuse and neglect prevention, investigation, and treatment services; 
 (E)  child protective services operational costs including transportation, risk and protective factors assessments, family engagement and kinship navigator services, and relative searches, criminal background checks for prospective placements, and home studies; and   (F)  development of a Tribal child protection or multidisciplinary team to assist in the prevention and investigation of child abuse and neglect;  ; 
 (ii)  in paragraph (2)—   (I) in subparagraph (A), by inserting  in culturally appropriate ways  after  incidents of family violence ; and
 (II) in subparagraph (C), by inserting  that may include culturally appropriate programs  after  training programs ; and  (iii)  in paragraph (3)— 
 (I) in subparagraph (A), by inserting  and neglect  after  abuse ; and  (II) in subparagraph (B), by striking  cases, to the extent practicable,  and inserting  and neglect cases ;
 (B)  in subsection (f)—   (i) in paragraph (2), by striking  develop, in consultation with Indian tribes, appropriate caseload standards and staffing requirements which are comparable to standards developed by the National Association of Social Work, the Child Welfare League of America and other professional associations in the field of social work and child welfare  and inserting develop, not later than one year after the date of the enactment of the  Native American Child Protection Act , in consultation with Indian Tribes, appropriate caseload standards and staffing requirements;
 (ii) in paragraph (3)(D), by striking  sexual abuse  and inserting  abuse and neglect, high incidence of family violence ;  (iii)  by amending paragraph (4) to read as follows: 

 (4)  The formula established pursuant to this subsection shall provide funding necessary to support not less than one child protective services or family violence caseworker, including fringe benefits and support costs, for each Indian Tribe.  ; and   (iv) in paragraph (5), by striking  tribes  and inserting  Indian Tribes ;
 (C)  by amending subsection (g) to read as follows:    (g)  Report Not later than 2 years after the date of the enactment of the  Native American Child Protection Act , the Secretary of the Interior, acting through the Bureau of Indian Affairs, shall submit a report to Congress on the award of grants under this section. The report shall contain—
 (1)  a description of treatment and services for which grantees have used funds awarded under this section; and   (2)  any other information that the Secretary of the Interior requires.  ; and 
 (D)  by amending subsection (i) to read as follows:    (i)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $60,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2027.  . 

