 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Kids In-Person Determines School Success Act  or the  KIDS Success Act . 
 2.  Reports and assessment on impact of school closures due to COVID–19  (a)  LEA information collection Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, each local educational agency that received funds under section 2001 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021 ( Public Law 117–2 ) shall submit to the Secretary of Education a report that includes the following: (1)  With respect to each unopened school in the jurisdiction of such agency—  (A) an explanation of the reasons such school has not opened for full-time, in-person learning in accordance with the guidance of the Centers for Disease Control titled  Operational Strategy for K–12 Schools through Phased Prevention , as updated on March 19, 2021; and (B)  the expected date on which students are expected to return to such school for full-time, in-person learning.  (2)  The total amount of Federal COVID–19 relief funds received by the local educational agency in the preceding 12 months.  (3)  Such other information as the Secretary of Education may require.  (b)  Assessment and report  (1)  Assessment  Using the information received from local educational agencies under subsection (a) and other available research and information, the Secretary of Education shall conduct an assessment of the effects of school closures due to COVID–19, including—  (A)  the long-term effects of extended e-learning and hybrid learning on students;  (B)  the effect of such closures on student absenteeism and disciplinary changes; and  (C)  any other effects the Secretary determines to be relevant.  (2)  Report  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education shall submit to Congress a report on the results of the assessment conducted under paragraph (1).  (c)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1) The term  unopened school  means an elementary school or secondary school that is not open for full-time, in-person learning as of April 5, 2021. (2) The terms  elementary school ,  local educational agency , and  secondary school  have the meanings given those terms in section 8101 if the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 ).
