
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Saving Hazardous And Declining Environments Act  or the  SHADE Act . 
  2.  Tree planting grant program   (a)  Establishment  The Secretary of Housing and Urban Development, in coordination with the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service, shall establish a grant program under which the Secretary shall award grants to eligible entities to plant qualifying trees in eligible areas.  
 (b)  Applications 
 (1)  In general  An eligible entity that seeks to receive a grant under subsection (a) shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.   (2)  Contents  An application submitted under paragraph (1) shall include a 5-year timeline and budget for the planting and maintenance associated with any qualifying trees awarded.  
 (3)  Community involvement  The Secretary shall require eligible entities to develop a public participation plan to ensure that residents of the area in which a project is to be implemented are involved in decision-making about the project and such public participation plan may include—   (A)  opportunities for local non-profits to be involved; 
 (B)  opportunities for public input; and   (C)  demonstrated support from the community. 
 (c)  Selection 
 (1)  In general  The Secretary shall determine which eligible entities shall receive a grant under this section.    (2)  Priority  When awarding grants under subsection (a), the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that, as determined by the Secretary, have or are likely to develop a housing policy plan designed to avoid the displacement of current residents, including a plan for new housing development or a plan for increasing property value in the eligible area.  
 (d)  Use of amounts  An eligible entity that receives a grant under subsection (a) shall use amounts provided to cover costs associated with—   (1)  implementing the tree planting project in an eligible area, including— 
 (A)  planning and designing the planting activity;   (B)  purchasing qualifying trees; and 
 (C)  preparing the site and conducting planting, including the labor and cost associated with the use of machinery;   (2)  maintaining and monitoring planted trees for a period of up to 5 years to ensure successful establishment of the qualifying trees; 
 (3)  training activities associated with the project; and   (4)  other relevant costs, as determined by the Secretary. 
 (e)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2032.   (f)  Definitions  In this section: 
 (1)  Eligible entity The term  eligible entity  means—  (A)  a State, Territory, or Tribal agency; 
 (B)  a local government entity;   (C)  an Indian Tribe; and 
 (D)  a nonprofit organization.   (2)  Eligible areas The term  eligible area  means a redlined area or an overburdened area.
 (3)  Limited English proficiency household The term  limited English proficiency household  means that a household does not have an adult that speaks English  very well  as determined by the United States Census Bureau.   (4)  Indian Tribe The term  Indian Tribe  has the meaning given the term  Indian tribe  in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ( 25 U.S.C. 5304 ).
 (5)  Local governmental entity The term  local governmental entity  means any municipal government or county government with jurisdiction over local land use decisions.  (6)  Overburdened area The term  overburdened area  means, as determined by the Secretary, an area where—
 (A)  35 percent or more of households qualify as low-income households;    (B)  40 percent or more of residents identify as a minority or as members of a State-recognized tribal community; or 
 (C)  40 percent or more of households are limited English proficiency households.   (7)  Nonprofit organization The term  nonprofit organization  means an organization that—
 (A) is described in  section 170(h)(3)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; and  (B)  operates in accordance with one or more of the purposes described in section 170(h)(4)(A) of that Code. 
 (8)  Qualifying tree  The term qualifying tree means a tree that—   (A)  is a species that is not an invasive species in the eligible area in which such tree is to be planted; and 
 (B)  is not a species that is, in the eligible area at the time of planting, being attacked by an invasive species, unless the eligible entity has a plan to limit the risk of death of the tree to be planted.    (9)  Redlined area The term  redlined area  means, as determined by the Secretary—
 (A) a census tract graded as  hazardous  or  definitely declining  in maps drawn by the Home Owners’ Loan Corporation that are, as of the date of enactment of this Act, low-income communities; and  (B)  a census tract that was designated for non-White citizens in jurisdictions that historically had racially segregated zoning codes and are, as of the date of enactment of this Act, low-income communities. 
 (10)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Housing and Urban Development. 
 