 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Military Spouse Student Loan Deferment Act .
 2.  Student loan deferment for dislocated military spouses  (a)  In general Section 455(f) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1087e(f) ) is amended— (1)  by redesignating paragraphs (4) and (5) as paragraphs (5) and (6), respectively; and  (2)  by inserting after paragraph (3) the following:  (4)  Deferment for dislocated military spouses  (A)  Duration and effect on principal and interest  A borrower of a loan made, insured, or guaranteed under this part or part B who meets the requirements of subparagraph (B) shall be eligible for a deferment for a period of 90 days, during which periodic installments of principal need not be paid, and interest shall not accrue.  (B)  Eligibility  A borrower of a loan made, insured, or guaranteed under this part or part B shall be eligible for a deferment under subparagraph (A) if the borrower—  (i)  is the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty; and  (ii)  has experienced a loss of employment as a result of relocation to accommodate a permanent change in duty station of such member.  (C)  Documentation and approval  (i)  In general  A borrower may establish eligibility for a deferment under subparagraph (A) by providing to the Secretary—  (I)  the documentation described in clause (ii); or  (II)  such other documentation as the Secretary determines appropriate.  (ii)  Documentation  The documentation described in this clause is—  (I)  evidence that the borrower is the spouse of a member of the Armed Forces serving on active duty;  (II)  evidence that a military permanent change of station order was issued to such member; and  (III)  (aa)  evidence that the borrower is eligible for unemployment benefits due to a loss of employment resulting from relocation to accommodate such permanent change in duty station; or  (bb)  a written certification, or an equivalent as approved by the Secretary, that the borrower is registered with a public or private employment agency due to a loss of employment resulting from relocation to accommodate such permanent change in duty station.  .  (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by subsection (a) shall take effect 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
