 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protect Peaceful Protests Act .
 2.  Law enforcement authority  (a)  Powers of enforcement personnel  Section 508(a)(5) of the Controlled Substances Act is amended to read as follows:  (5)  perform such law enforcement duties as the Attorney General may designate as necessary to enforce the controlled substances laws of the United States, which shall not include any law enforcement duty that does not relate to, arise from, or supplement investigations of matters concerning drugs.  .  (b)  U.S. Marshals Service powers and duties Section 566(c) of title 28, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the period at the end the following:  The United States Marshals Service may not deputize a law enforcement officer of a State (or any unit of local government within a State), Indian tribe, territory, or the District of Columbia, unless pursuant to a request by the chief executive of the appropriate State, Indian tribe, territory, or the District of Columbia. The United States Marshals Service may not deputize any other law enforcement officer of the Federal Government, unless pursuant to a request by the chief executive of the appropriate State, Indian tribe, territory, or the District of Columbia. . (c)  Law enforcement authority of Secretary of Homeland Security  Section 1315(b) of title 40, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in paragraph (1), by striking  The Secretary  and inserting  Subject to paragraph (3), the Secretary ; and (2)  by adding at the end the following:  (3)  Protests  The Secretary may not designate additional employees of the Department of Homeland Security as officers and agents for duty in connection with the protection of property owned or occupied by the Federal Government, or persons on the property, in any area in which protest activity is occurring, unless pursuant to a request by the chief executive of the appropriate State, Indian tribe, territory, or the District of Columbia. This paragraph shall not apply to the designation of employees transferred to the Department of Homeland Security from the Office of the Federal Protective Service of the General Services Administration pursuant to the Homeland Security Act of 2002.  . 
