
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Inspector General Protection Act .
  2.  Congressional notification of change in status of Inspector General   (a)  Change in status of Inspector General of offices  Section 3(b) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended— 
 (1) by inserting  , is placed on paid or unpaid non-duty status,  after  is removed from office ;  (2) by inserting  , change in status,  after  any such removal ; and
 (3) by inserting  , change in status,  after  before the removal .  (b)  Change in status of Inspector General of designated Federal entities  Section 8G(e)(2) of the Inspector General Act of 1978 (5 U.S.C. App.) is amended— 
 (1) by inserting  , is placed on paid or unpaid non-duty status,  after  office ;  (2) by inserting  , change in status,  after  any such removal ; and
 (3) by inserting  , change in status,  after  before the removal .  (c)  Effective Date  The amendments made by this section shall take effect 30 days after the date of the enactment of this Act. 

 3.  Presidential explanation of failure to nominate an Inspector General 
 (a)  In General Subchapter III of  chapter 33  of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 3349d  the following new section:   3349e.  Presidential explanation of failure to nominate an Inspector General  If the President fails to make a formal nomination for a vacant Inspector General position that requires a formal nomination by the President to be filled within the period beginning on the date on which the vacancy occurred and ending on the day that is 210 days after that date, the President shall communicate, within 30 days after the end of such period, to Congress in writing— 
 (1)  the reasons why the President has not yet made a formal nomination; and   (2)  a target date for making a formal nomination. 
 . 
 (b)  Clerical Amendment The table of sections for  chapter 33  of title 5, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to 3349d the following new item:    3349e. Presidential explanation of failure to nominate an Inspector General.  .   (c)  Effective Date  The amendment made by subsection (a) shall take effect on the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply to any vacancy first occurring on or after that date. 

 4.  Determination of budgetary effects The budgetary effects of this Act, for the purpose of complying with the Statutory Pay-As-You-Go Act of 2010, shall be determined by reference to the latest statement titled  Budgetary Effects of PAYGO Legislation  for this Act, submitted for printing in the Congressional Record by the Chairman of the House Budget Committee, provided that such statement has been submitted prior to the vote on passage.
 