 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Upward Mobility Enhancement Act .
 2.  Increase in exclusion for educational assistance programs  (a)  In general  Section 127(a)(2)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended to read as follows: (2)  Maximum exclusion  (A)  In general  This section shall apply only to the first $12,000 of educational assistance furnished to an individual during a calendar year, in the case of assistance for education below the graduate level.  (B)  Inflation adjustment  In the case of any calendar year after 2021, the dollar amount in subparagraph (A) shall be increased by an amount equal to—  (i)  such dollar amount, multiplied by  (ii) the cost-of-living adjustment determined under section 1(f)(3) for the calendar year in which such taxable year begins by substituting  calendar year 2020  for  calendar year 2016  in subparagraph (A)(ii) thereof. If any increase determined under this subparagraph is not a multiple of $50, such increase shall be rounded to the next lowest multiple of $50.  .  (b)  Effective date  The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020. 
 3.  Expenses for education-related tools and technology  (a)  In general  Section 127(c)(1)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  equipment  both places it appears in subparagraphs (A) and (C) thereof and inserting  education-related tools and technology and other equipment . (b)  Education-Related tools and technology  Section 127(c) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new paragraph:  (8)  Education-related tools and technology For purposes of paragraph (1), the term  education-related tools and technology  includes any— (A)  hand tools and construction equipment,  (B)  computer or peripheral equipment (as defined in section 168(i)(2)(B)),  (C)  computer software (as defined in section 197(e)(3)(B)),  (D)  Internet access and related services (including equipment or technology necessary for Internet access),  (E)  Internet, mobile, or virtual reality learning tools and technology,  (F)  licensure fees, materials, or other equipment, and  (G)  any other tools or technology as determined by the Secretary,  provided to an employee which is required for the education of the employee or in connection with a course of instruction for the employee, or is required in order for the employee to obtain professional advancement, to obtain any certification, licensure, or employment under any State, regional or national guidelines or regulations applicable to a trade or other skilled profession, or to maintain such a certification, licensure, or employment through a continuing education program.  (c)  Employee retention of education-Related tools and technology Section 127(c)(1) of such Code is amended by striking  completion of a course of instruction,  and inserting  completion of a course of instruction (other than education-related tools and technology not described in paragraph (8)(D)), . (d)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to amounts paid or incurred on or after the first day of the calendar quarter which includes the date of the enactment of this Act. 
