 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Second Chance Opportunity for Re-Entry Education Act of 2021  or the  SCORE Act of 2021 .
 2.  Grant to promote re-entry training programs and reduce recidivism  (a)  In general Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Director of the Bureau of Justice Assistance shall establish a grant program called the  Second Chance Opportunity for Re-Entry Education Grant Program  (in this Act referred to as the  Program ) to promote re-entry training programs and reduce recidivism to county jails for qualified non-violent inmates. (b)  Grant authority  In carrying out the Program, the Director may award a grant on a competitive basis in accordance with this section.  (c)  Eligible recipients  (1)  In general  The Director may award a grant under the Program to a county with a county jail inmate population of 500 or more inmates, determined by the Director to have the authority and capability to carry out a project described in subsection (d).  (2)  County coordination  The Director may award a grant under the Program to two or more counties, as a group, with a county jail inmate population of less than 500 inmates if the combined inmate population of these counties is 500 or more inmates and together these counties are determined by the Director to have the authority and capability to carry out a project described in subsection (d).  (d)  Eligible projects  Grant funds awarded under the Program may only be used to develop or manage an existing career training program at a county jail to provide training in welding, heating ventilation, and air conditioning (HVAC), plumbing, or any other career training program determined to be an eligible project by the Director.   (e)  Applications  (1)  In general  To be eligible for a grant under the Program, a county with a county jail inmate population of 500 or more inmates may submit to the Director an application in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Director determines to be appropriate.  (2)  County coordination  To be eligible for a grant under the Program, two or more counties with a combined county jail inmate population of 500 or more inmates may submit to the Director an application as a group, in such form, at such time, and containing such information as the Director determines to be appropriate.   (f)  Priority  In making a grant under the Program, the Director shall give priority to an eligible recipient that—  (1)  has career training programs and facilities for such programs;  (2)  coordinates with local or adjacent civilian trade schools, technical or vocational institutes, or community colleges that can provide paid instructors for inmate classroom instruction;  (3)  as county owned or leased land that can support construction of classroom and vocational training space;  (4)  has county assets so that the county can transport, feed, and secure inmates during inmate classroom instruction and traveling to and from such classroom instruction;   (5)  has administrative support from a county sheriff, county judge, or county commissioners court members, as applicable; and  (6)  coordinates with non-profit organizations and unions that have expertise and experience in career training programs.   (g)  Limitation on grant amounts  The amount of a grant under the Program shall not exceed $500,000, including if a grant is made to two or more counties with a combined county jail inmate population of 500 or more inmates.  (h)  Federal share  The Federal share of the cost of a project assisted with a grant under the Program shall not exceed 75 percent.  (i)  Evaluation of Program  Not later than 365 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, and annually thereafter, an eligible recipient who is awarded a grant under the Program shall submit to the Director a report on the Program, including:  (1)  The number of inmates that entered career training programs developed pursuant to the Program.  (2)  The number of inmates that completed or graduated career training programs developed pursuant to the Program.  (3)  The number of inmates that completed or graduated career training programs developed pursuant to the Program and re-entered the county jail after their release from jail.  (4)  The number of inmates that completed or graduated career training programs developed pursuant to the Program who found employment after release and what career field they are employed in.   (j)  Qualified non-Violent inmates defined In this section, the term  qualified non-violent inmates  means— (1)  a non-violent individual who has not been convicted of an offense during the course of which—  (A)  the individual used a firearm or other dangerous weapon; or  (B)  there occurred the death of, or serious bodily injury to, any person;  (2) a non-violent individual who has not been charged or convicted of any offense under Federal or State law, punishable by imprisonment for a term exceeding one year, that is murder, voluntary manslaughter, kidnapping, aggravated assault, a forcible sex offense, robbery, arson, extortion, or the use or unlawful possession of a firearm described in section 5845(a) of the Internal Revenue Code of 1968 ( 26 U.S.C. 5845(a) ) or explosive material as defined in section 841(c) of title 18, United States Code.  (k)  Funding of program Section 506 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 198 ( 34 U.S.C. 10157 ) is amended by inserting the following new subsection:  (c) Of the total amount made available to carry out this part for a fiscal year, the Attorney General shall reserve not more than 3 percent to be granted to 1 or more county for the grant program established pursuant to the  SCORE Act of 2021  for each of the fiscal years 2022 to 2027.  .  
