 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Restore and Modernize Our National Laboratories Act of 2021 .
 2.  National laboratories restoration and modernization  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  National laboratory The term  National Laboratory  has the meaning given the term in section 2 of the Energy Policy Act of 2005 ( 42 U.S.C. 15801 ). (2)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Energy. (b)  Restoration and modernization projects  The Secretary shall fund projects described in subsection (c) as needed to address the deferred maintenance, critical infrastructure needs, and modernization of National Laboratories.  (c)  Projects described  The projects referred to in subsection (b) are, as determined by the Secretary—  (1)  priority deferred maintenance projects at National Laboratories, including facilities sustainment for, upgrade of, and construction of research laboratories, administrative and support buildings, utilities, roads, power plants, and any other critical infrastructure; and  (2)  lab modernization projects at National Laboratories, including lab modernization projects relating to core infrastructure needed—  (A)  to support existing and emerging science missions with new and specialized requirements for world-leading scientific user facilities and computing capabilities; and  (B)  to maintain safe, efficient, reliable, and environmentally responsible operations.  (d)  Submission to Congress  For each fiscal year through fiscal year 2026, at the same time as the annual budget submission of the President, the Secretary shall submit to the Committees on Appropriations and Energy and Natural Resources of the Senate and the Committees on Appropriations and Science, Space, and Technology of the House of Representatives a list of projects for which the Secretary will provide funding under this section, including a description of each project and the funding profile for the project.  (e)  Authorization of appropriations  (1)  In general  There is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out this section $6,100,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.  (2)  Office of science Not less than  1/6  of the amounts made available to carry out this section each fiscal year shall be managed by the Office of Science of the Department of Energy.
