 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as  Bree’s Law .
 2.  Teen dating violence prevention Section 1708 of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 300u–7 ) is amended by— (1)  striking subsection (c) and inserting the following:  (c)  Certain demonstration projects  (1)  In general  In carrying out subsection (b)(3), the Secretary may make grants to carry out demonstration projects for the purpose of improving adolescent health, including—   (A)  projects to train health care providers in providing services to adolescents; and  (B)  projects to reduce the incidence of violence among adolescents, particularly violence related to teen dating, which shall include projects to develop and implement educational program to increase abuse awareness and prevention.  (2)  Authorization of appropriations  For the purpose of carrying out paragraph (1), there are authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.   ; and  (2)  by adding at the end the following:  (g)  Interagency work group  (1)  Establishment The Secretary shall establish the Federal Interagency Work Group on Teen Dating Violence (referred to in this section as the  Work Group ). (2)  In general  (A)  Composition Not later than 120 days after the date of enactment of  Bree’s Law , the Secretary shall appoint representatives to the Work Group from the Administration for Children and Families, the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, the Health Resources and Services Administration, the Department of Education, the Department of Justice, and other Federal agencies as determined appropriate by the Secretary. (B)  Consultation  The Work Group shall consult with—  (i)  experts at the State, Tribal, and local levels with relevant backgrounds in reducing and preventing the incidence of teen dating violence;  (ii)  victims of teen dating violence; and  (iii)  family members of teens who were killed by a dating partner.  (3)  Duties  The Work Group shall—  (A)  examine all Federal efforts directed towards reducing and preventing teen dating violence;  (B)  identify strategies, resources, and supports to improve State, Tribal, and local responses to the incidence of teen dating violence;  (C)  make recommendations to Congress for improving Federal programs and efforts and coordination across such programs and efforts to reduce and prevent teen dating violence; and  (D)  make recommendations for educating middle and high school students on teen dating violence.  (4)  Annual report to Secretary  The Work Group shall annually prepare and submit to the Secretary, the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate, and the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives, a report on the activities carried out by the Work Group under subsection (c), including recommendations to reduce and prevent teen dating violence.  . 
