 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Streamline DoD Cyber Recruitment Act .
 2.  Feasibility study regarding establishment within the Department of Defense of a designated central program office, headed by a senior Department official, responsible for overseeing all academic engagement programs focusing on creating cyber talent across the Department  (a)  In general  Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a feasibility study regarding the establishment within the Department of Defense of a designated central program office, headed by a senior Department official, responsible for overseeing all academic engagement programs focusing on creating cyber talent across the Department. Such study shall examine the following:  (1)  The manner in or through which such a designated central program office would obligate and expend amounts relating to cyber education initiatives.  (2) The manner in or through which such a designated central program office would interact with the consortium or consortia of universities (established pursuant to section 1659 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 ( 10 U.S.C. 391  note)) to assist the Secretary on cybersecurity matters. (3)  The reasons why cyber has unique programs apart from other science, technology, engineering, and math programs.  (4)  Whether the creation of the designated central program office will have an estimated net savings for the Department.  (b)  Consultation  In conducting the feasibility study required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall consult with and solicit recommendations from academic institutions and stakeholders. including primary, secondary, and post-secondary educational institutions.  (c)  Determination  (1)  In general  Upon completion of the feasibility study required under subsection (a), the Secretary of Defense shall make a determination regarding the establishment within the Department of Defense of a designated central program office responsible for each covered academic engagement program across the Department.  (2)  Implementation  If the Secretary of Defense makes a determination under paragraph (1) in the affirmative, the Secretary shall establish within the Department of Defense a designated central program office responsible for each covered academic enrichment program across the Department. Not later than 180 days after such a determination in the affirmative, the Secretary shall promulgate such rules and regulations as are necessary to so establish such an office.  (3)  Negative determination  If the Secretary determines not to establish a designated central program office under subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to Congress notice of such determination, together with a justification for the determination.  (d)  Comprehensive report Not later than 270 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Defense shall submit to the congressional defense committees a comprehensive report that updates the matters required for inclusion in the reports required pursuant to section 1649 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2020 ( Public Law 116–92 ) and section 1726(c) of the William M. (Mac) Thornberry National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2021 ( Public Law 116–283 ). (e)  Definition In this section, the term  covered academic engagement program  means each of the following: (1)  Any primary, secondary, or post-secondary education program.  (2)  Any recruitment or retention program.  (3)  Any scholarship program.  (4)  Any academic partnerships.  (5)  Any general enrichment program. 
