
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Fair Access to Credit Scores Act of 2021 .
  2.  Credit scores included in free annual disclosures   (a)  In general Section 609 of the Fair Credit Reporting Act ( 15 U.S.C. 1681g ) is amended—
 (1)  in subsection (a)(1)—   (A) by striking  and  at the end and inserting a period;
 (B) by striking  except that—  and all that follows through  (A) if the  and inserting  except that if the ; and  (C)  by striking subparagraph (B); 
 (2)  in subsection (a), by adding at the end the following:    (7)  If the consumer reporting agency is a consumer reporting agency that compiles and maintains files on consumers on a nationwide basis as described in section 603(p), each such agency shall disclose a current credit score generated using the scoring algorithm, formula, model, program, or mechanism that is most frequently used to generate credit scores sold to creditors, subject to regulations of the Bureau, along with any information in the consumer’s file at the time of the request concerning credit scores or any other risk scores or other predictors relating to the consumer, if such request is made in connection with a free annual disclosure made pursuant to section 612(a). 
 (8)  Such other consumer information as the Bureau considers appropriate with respect to consumer financial education, including the information required by subsection (f)(1), information describing the credit score of the consumer with respect to a range of possible credit scores, and the general factors contributing to the credit scores of consumers.  ; and   (3)  in subsection (f)— 
 (A)  in paragraph (1)—   (i) by striking  , a consumer reporting agency  and all that follows through  shall include—  and inserting  or a risk score, a consumer reporting agency shall supply to the consumer— ; and
 (ii)  by amending subparagraph (A) to read as follows:    (A)  any credit score or risk score in the file of the consumer at the consumer reporting agency;  ; 
 (B)  in paragraph (2)—   (i)  by redesignating subparagraph (B) as subparagraph (C); and 
 (ii)  by striking subparagraph (A) and inserting the following:    (A)  Credit score The term  credit score  means a numerical value or a categorization derived from a statistical tool or modeling system used by a person who makes or arranges a loan to predict the likelihood of certain credit behaviors, including default.
 (B)  Risk score The term  risk score  means a numerical value or a categorization derived from a statistical tool or modeling system based upon information from a consumer report for the purpose of predicting the likelihood of certain behaviors or outcomes, and includes scores used for the underwriting of insurance. ;   (C)  by striking paragraph (6) and inserting the following: 

 (6)  Maintenance of credit scores  All consumer reporting agencies shall maintain in the consumer’s file credit scores or any other risk scores or other predictors relating to the consumer for a period of not less than 1 year beginning on the date on which such information is generated.  ;   (D)  by striking paragraph (7) and redesignating paragraphs (8) and (9) as paragraphs (7) and (8), respectively; and 
 (E) in paragraph (7) (as so redesignated), by inserting before the period at the end the following:  , except that a consumer reporting agency described in section 603(p) shall provide a credit score without charge to the consumer if the consumer is requesting the score in connection with a free annual disclosure made pursuant to section 612(a) .  (b)  Inclusion in free reports Section 612(g) of the Fair Credit Reporting Act ( 15 U.S.C. 1681j(g) ) is amended—
 (1)  in paragraph (1)—   (A) by striking  free credit report  and inserting  free or low cost credit report or credit score ; and
 (B) by inserting  and free credit scores  after  free credit reports ; and  (2) in paragraph (2), by inserting  or free credit score, as applicable,  after  free credit report . 

