 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Shoring Up Personal Protective and Lifesaving Indispensable Equipment Stockpile Act  or the  SUPPLIES Act .
 2.  Increasing production of critical medical supplies  (a)  Establishment  Not later than 15 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall establish a program to provide grants to modify or reallocate the productive facilities of small business concerns to produce a covered good that is critically needed to address the national emergency related to the COVID–19 pandemic.  (b)  Application  A small business concern seeking a grant under this section shall submit to the Administrator an application at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Administration may reasonably require.  (c)  Eligibility  A small business concern that has not begun modifications or reallocations of the productive facilities of such concern before the date on which the national emergency was declared is eligible to receive a grant under this section to modify or reallocate such productive facilities.  (d)  Grant terms  (1)  Matching requirement  (A)  In general  A small business concern receiving a grant under this section shall provide non-Federal matching funds equal to not less than 25 percent of the grant.  (B)  In-kind support  The non-Federal matching funds described in subparagraph (A) may include in-kind support.  (2)  Sale requirements  With respect to covered goods produced by a grant recipient during the period of the national emergency as a result of a modification or reallocation of productive facilities using grant amounts, such grant recipient, and any parent company or affiliate of such recipient, shall—  (A)  prioritize the domestic sale of any such covered goods; and  (B)  sell such covered goods at a price that does not grossly exceed the average price of such covered goods for the 90-day period ending on January 31, 2020, for the region in which the grant recipient sells such covered goods, except to the extent that the price reasonably reflects additional production costs.  (e)  Priorities  In making grants under this Act, the Administrator shall prioritize applications based on—  (1)  the expected date by which the applicant will begin or increase production of covered goods;  (2)  the expected number of covered goods that will be produced as a result of a modification or reallocation of productive facilities using grant amounts; and  (3)  such other criteria that the Administrator determines to be appropriate.  (f)  Grant period  Grants under this section may only be made during the period of the national emergency.  (g)  Rulemaking  Not later than 15 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall issue rules to carry out this Act.  (h)  Reports  (1)  Interim report  Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate a report on the grants made under this Act, including—  (A)  the total number and dollar amount of such grants;  (B)  a list of the recipients of such grants; and  (C)  with respect to each such grant, how grant funds are being used.  (2)  Final report  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Administrator shall submit to the Committee on Small Business of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Small Business and Entrepreneurship of the Senate a report evaluating the effect of the program established under subsection (a) on the response to the COVID–19 pandemic, including—  (A)  a description of any covered goods produced by a grant recipient as a result of a modification or reallocation of productive facilities using grant amounts;  (B)  the total number of each such covered good produced;  (C)  a list of purchasers of more than 500 covered goods produced as a result of a modification or reallocation of productive facilities using grant amounts;  (D)  a description of the overall effect that the manufacturing of covered goods by grant recipients had in meeting the increased demand for such covered goods resulting from the COVID–19 pandemic; and  (E)  recommendations for continuing or improving the program.  (i)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated $100,000,000 through September 30, 2021, to carry out this Act.  (j)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Administrator The term  Administrator  means the Administrator of the Small Business Administration. (2)  Covered good The term  covered good  means invasive or multifunction ventilators, N95 respirators, surgical masks, surgical gowns, sanitizing wipes, nasopharyngeal swabs, viral transport media, procedure masks, hand sanitizer, face shields, or nitrile exam gloves. (3)  National emergency The term  national emergency  means the national emergency declared by the President under the National Emergencies Act ( 50 U.S.C. 1601  et seq.) with respect to COVID–19. (4)  Small business concern The term  small business concern  has the same meaning as under section 3 of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 632 ).
