 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Medicare Economic Security Solutions Act . 
 2.  Limiting Medicare part B late enrollment penalty to 15 percent and twice the period of no enrollment  (a)  In general The first sentence of section 1839(b) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1395r(b) ) is amended by striking  10 percent of the monthly premium so determined for each full 12 months  and inserting  15 percent of the monthly premium so determined for premiums paid during a period equal to twice the number of months in each of the full periods of 12 months . (b)  Conforming amendments Section 1818 of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1395i–2 ) is amended— (1) in subsection (c)(6), by striking  and shall only apply to premiums paid during a period equal to twice the number of months in the full 12-month periods described in that section and ; and (2) in subsection (g)(2)(B), by striking  by substituting  and all that follows and inserting the following: by substituting  section 1818 (without any increase resulting from the application of section 1839(b) to such section 1818)  for  section 1839 (without any increase under subsection (b) thereof) .. (c)  Effective date  (1)  In general  The amendments made by this section shall apply to premiums paid for months beginning after the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act.  (2)  Clarification  In applying these amendments, months (before, during, or after the month in which this Act is enacted) in which an individual was or is required to pay an increased premium shall be taken into account in determining the month in which the premium will no longer be subject to an increase. 
 3.  Exclusion of periods of COBRA, retiree, and VA coverage from Medicare part B late enrollment penalty  (a)  In general The second sentence of section 1839(b) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1395r(b) ) is amended— (1) by striking  by reason of the individual’s (or the individual’s spouse’s) current employment ; and (2) by inserting or months for which the individual can demonstrate that the individual had coverage under  chapter 17  of title 38, United States Code before the period at the end. (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to premiums paid for months beginning after the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 4.  Special enrollment period for individuals whose COBRA or retiree coverage terminates  (a)  In general Section 1837(i) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1395p(i) ) is amended— (1) in the first sentence of paragraph (1), by striking  by reason of the individual's (or the individual’s spouse’s) current employment status  in subparagraph (A); (2) in the first sentence of paragraph (2) by striking  by reason of the individual's (or the individual’s spouse’s) current employment status  each place it appears in subparagraphs (B) and (C); and (3) in paragraph (3)(A) by striking  by reason of current employment status . (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply to terminations of coverage occurring after the end of the 90-day period beginning on the date of the enactment of this Act. 
