 1.  Codification and expansion of authority for joint task forces of the Department of Defense to support law enforcement agencies conducting counter-terrorism, counter-illicit trafficking, or counter-transnational organized crime activities  (a)  Codification  Chapter 15  of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end a new section 285 consisting of— (1)  a heading as follows:  285.  Authority for joint task forces to support law enforcement agencies conducting counter-terrorism, counter-illicit trafficking, or counter-transnational organized crime activities 
 ;  and  (2) a text consisting of the text of section 1022 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 ( 10 U.S.C. 271  note). (b)  Amendments  Section 285 of title 10, United States Code, as added by subsection (a), is amended—  (1) in subsection (a), by inserting  , counter-illicit trafficking activities,  after  counter-terrorism activities ; (2)  in subsection (b)—  (A) by striking  During fiscal years 2006 through 2022, funds for drug interdiction  and inserting  Funds for drug interdiction ; and (B) by inserting  , counter-illicit trafficking,  after  counter-terrorism ; (3)  in subsection (c)—  (A) in the matter preceding paragraph (1), by striking  of each year in which the authority in subsection (a) is in effect  and inserting  of each year ; and (B)  in paragraph (1)—  (i) by inserting  counter-illicit trafficking,  after  on counter-drug, ; and (ii) by inserting  , counter-illicit trafficking,  after  provide counter-terrorism, ; (4)  in subsection (d)—  (A)  in paragraph (2)(A)—  (i) by inserting  , counter-illicit trafficking,  after  counter-terrorism ; and (ii) by striking  significantly ; (B) by striking (d)  Conditions.—  and all that follows through  (2)(A) Support  and inserting (d)  Conditions.— (1) Support;  (C)  by redesignating subparagraph (B) as paragraph (2); and  (D)  in paragraph (2), as so redesignated—  (i)  in the first sentence—  (I) by striking  subparagraph (A)  and inserting  paragraph (1) ; and (II) by striking  vital to  and inserting  in ; and (ii) in the second sentence, by striking  the vital  and inserting  the ; and (5)  by striking subsection (e) and inserting the following new subsection (e):  (e)  Definitions  (1)  In this section:  (A) The term  illicit trafficking  means the trafficking of money, human trafficking, illicit financial flows, illegal trade in natural resources and wildlife, illegal maritime activities, or trade in illegal drugs and weapons, whether conducted by a transnational criminal organization or a state actor. (B) The term  transnational organized crime  has the meaning given such term in section 284(i) of this title. (2) For purposes of applying the definition of transnational organized crime under paragraph (1)(B) to this section, the term  illegal means , as it appears in such definition, includes— (A)  illicit trafficking; and  (B)  any other form of illegal means determined by the Secretary of Defense.  .  (c)  Conforming repeal Section 1022 of the National Defense Authorization Act for Fiscal Year 2004 ( 10 U.S.C. 271  note) is repealed. (d)  Clerical amendment The table of sections at the beginning of  chapter 15  of title 10, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following new item: 285. Authority for joint task forces to support law enforcement agencies conducting counter-terrorism, counter-illicit trafficking, or counter-transnational organized crime activities.  . 
