 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  New Home Energy Efficiency Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Extension, increase, and modifications of new energy efficient home credit  (a)  Extension of credit Section 45L(g) is amended by striking  December 31, 2021  and inserting  December 31, 2031 . (b)  Increase in credit amounts  Section 45L(a)(2) is amended to read as follows:  (2)  Applicable amount  For purposes of paragraph (1), the applicable amount is an amount equal to—  (A)  in the case of a dwelling unit described in subsection (c)(1)(A) (and not described in subsection (c)(1)(B)), $2,500, and  (B)  in the case of a dwelling unit described in subsection (c)(1)(B), $5000.  .  (c)  Modification of energy saving requirements  Section 45L(c) is amended to read as follows:  (c)  Energy saving requirements  (1)  In general  A dwelling unit meets the energy saving requirements of this subsection if—  (A)  such dwelling unit meets the requirements of paragraph (2) or (3) (whichever is applicable), or  (B)  such dwelling unit is certified as a zero energy ready home under the zero energy ready home program of the Department of Energy (or any successor program determined by the Secretary) as in effect as of the beginning of the calendar year in which construction of the dwelling unit begins.  (2)  Single-family home requirements  A dwelling unit meets the requirements of this paragraph if—  (A)  such dwelling unit meets—  (i)  in the case of a dwelling unit construction of which begins before January 1, 2024, the Energy Star Single-Family New Homes National Program Requirements 3.1, and  (ii)  in the case of a dwelling unit construction of which begins after December 31, 2023, the Energy Star Single-Family New Homes National Program Requirements 3.2, and  (B)  such dwelling unit meets the most recent Energy Star Single-Family New Homes Program Requirements applicable to the location of such dwelling unit (determined as of the beginning of the calendar year in which construction of such dwelling unit begins).  (3)  Multi-family home requirements  A dwelling unit meets the requirements of this paragraph if—  (A)  such dwelling unit meets the most recent Energy Star Multifamily New Construction National Program Requirements (determined as of the beginning of the calendar year in which construction of such dwelling unit begins), and  (B)  such dwelling unit meets the most recent Energy Star Multifamily New Construction Regional Program Requirements applicable to the location of such dwelling unit (as so determined).  .  (d)  Effective dates  The amendments made by this section shall apply to dwelling units acquired after December 31, 2021. 
