 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Broadband - Measuring Availability and Aligning Policies Task Force Act  or the  Broadband MAPS Act .
 2.  Broadband MAAPS Task Force  (a)  Establishment  Not later than 30 days after the date of the enactment of this section, the Commission shall establish the Broadband MAAPS Task Force.  (b)  Chair  The Commission shall designate a Chair of the Task Force.   (c)  Membership  The members of the Task Force shall include designees selected by the Commission from bureaus and offices of the Commission.  (d)  Responsibilities  The Task Force shall be responsible for the following:  (1) Coordinate, monitor, and oversee the work of the bureaus and offices to implement title VIII of the Communications Act ( 47 U.S.C. 641  et seq.) and the Secure and Trusted Communications Networks Act of 2019 ( 47 U.S.C. 1601  et seq.), including creating and updating the broadband availability maps. (2)  Identify any ongoing and anticipated Commission action, including any report, rulemaking, and funding program, such as the Universal Service Fund programs, that should be informed by the broadband availability maps.  (3)  Ensure that any relevant ongoing and anticipated Commission action, including any report, rulemaking, and funding program, such as the Universal Service Fund programs, is informed by the broadband availability maps.  (4)  Not later than 18 months after the date of the enactment of this section, provide the committees of jurisdiction an estimate of the ongoing cost associated with maintaining the broadband availability maps.  (5)  Provide any recommendation, if necessary, to the committees of jurisdiction to ensure that the Commission can produce accurate broadband availability maps with sufficient granularity to allow the Commission to determine the areas in the United States that lack broadband internet access service.  (e)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Broadband availability maps The term  broadband availability maps  means the maps required under section 802 of the Communications Act of 1934 ( 47 U.S.C. 642 ). (2)  Broadband internet access service The term  broadband internet access service  has the meaning given that term in section 8.1(b) of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations, or any successor regulation.  (3)  Commission The term  Commission  means the Federal Communications Commission. (4)  Committees of jurisdiction The term  committees of jurisdiction  means the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Commerce, Science, and Transportation of the Senate. (5)  Task force The term  Task Force  means the Broadband MAAPS Task Force established pursuant to subsection (a). (6)  Universal Service Fund program The term  Universal Service Fund program  means any program authorized in section 254(h) of the Communications Act of 1934 ( 47 U.S.C. 254(h) ).
