 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  FTO Passport Revocation Act of 2021 .
 2.  Revocation or denial of passports to individuals affiliated with foreign terrorist organizations The Act entitled  An Act to regulate the issue and validity of passports, and for other purposes , approved July 3, 1926 ( 22 U.S.C. 211a  et seq.), commonly known as the  Passport Act of 1926 , is amended by adding at the end the following new section: 4.  Authority to deny or revoke passport  (a)  Ineligibility  (1)  Issuance Except as provided under subsection (b), the Secretary of State may refuse to issue a passport to any individual whom the Secretary has determined has aided, assisted, abetted, or otherwise helped an organization the Secretary has designated as a foreign terrorist organization pursuant to section 219 of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1189 ). (2)  Revocation  The Secretary of State may revoke a passport previously issued to any individual described in paragraph (1).  (b)  Right of review  Any individual who, in accordance with this section, is denied issuance of a passport by the Secretary of State, or whose passport is revoked by the Secretary, may request a hearing before the Secretary not later than 60 days after receiving notice of such denial or revocation.  (c)  Report  (1)  In general  If the Secretary of State refuses to issue or revokes a passport pursuant to subsection (a), or if, subsequent to a hearing pursuant to subsection (b), the Secretary issues or cancels a revocation of a passport that was the subject of such a hearing, the Secretary shall, not later than 30 days after such refusal or revocation, or such issuance or cancellation, submit to the Committee on Foreign Affairs of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Foreign Relations of the Senate a report on such refusal, revocation, issuance, or cancellation, as the case may be.  (2)  Form  The report submitted under paragraph (1) may be submitted in classified or unclassified form.  (d)  Definition In this section, the term  passport  includes a passport card.
 . 
