 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Essential Skills and Child Care for Health Professions Act .
 2.  Provision of foundational educational training and child care Section 2008 of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1397g ) is amended by redesignating subsections (c) and (d) as subsections (d) and (e), respectively, and by inserting after subsection (b) the following: (c)  Provision of foundational educational training and child care  (1)  Required support  A demonstration project for which a grant is made under this section shall include the following:  (A)  An assessment for adult basic skill competency, and the use of innovative approaches to adult basic skills education so that lower-skilled eligible individuals can enroll in the project and go on to enter and complete post-secondary training, through means including the following:  (i)  Establishing a network of partners that offer pre-training activities for project participants who need to improve basic academic skills or English language proficiency before entering a health occupational training career pathway program.  (ii)  Offering resources to enable project participants to continue advancing adult basic skill proficiency while enrolled in a career pathway program.  (iii)  Embedding adult basic skill maintenance as part of ongoing post-graduation career coaching and mentoring.  (B)  A guarantee that child care is an available and affordable support service for project participants through means such as the following:  (i)  Referral to, and assistance with, enrollment in a subsidized child care program.  (ii)  Direct payment to a child care provider if a slot in a subsidized child care program is not available or reasonably accessible.  (iii)  Payment of co-payments or associated fees for child care.  (2)  Allowed support  The goods and services provided under a demonstration project for which a grant is made under this section may include assistance with accessing and completing high school equivalency or adult basic education courses as necessary to achieve success in the project and make progress toward career goals.  . 
 3.  Effective date  The amendments made by this Act shall take effect on October 1, 2021. 
