 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Trees for Residential Energy and Economic Savings Act of 2021  or the  TREES Act of 2021 .
 2.  Tree planting grant program  (a)  Establishment  Not later than 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall establish a program under which the Secretary may award grants to eligible entities to facilitate covered projects in accordance with this section.  (b)  Consultation  In carrying out the Program, the Secretary shall consult with the Secretary of Agriculture, acting through the Chief of the Forest Service.  (c)  Applications  To receive a grant under the Program, an eligible entity shall submit to the Secretary an application at such time, in such form, and containing such information as the Secretary may require, including the following:  (1)  A description of how the proposed covered project will reduce residential energy consumption.  (2)  An estimate of the expected reduction in residential energy consumption to be achieved by the covered project.  (3)  A description of the total eligible costs of the project and other sources of funding for the covered project.   (4)  A description of anticipated community engagement in the covered project.  (5)  A description of the tree species to be planted under the covered project and the suitability of such species to the local environment.  (d)  Priority  In awarding grants under the Program, the Secretary shall give priority to covered projects that—  (1)  provide the largest potential reduction in residential energy consumption for households with a high energy burden;  (2)  provide maximum amounts of—  (A)  shade during periods when residences are exposed to the most sun intensity; and   (B)  wind protection during periods when residences are exposed to the most wind intensity;  (3)  are located in a neighborhood with a low percentage of tree canopy cover;  (4)  are located in a neighborhood with a high percentage of senior citizens or children;   (5)  are located in an area where the average annual income is below the regional median;  (6)  will collaboratively engage community members to be affected by the tree planting; and  (7)  will employ local residents as a substantial percentage of the workforce of the covered project, with a focus on local residents who are unemployed or underemployed.  (e)  Tree planting goals  Subject to the availability of appropriations, the Secretary shall, to the maximum extent practicable, award grants under the Program in a manner that facilitates the planting of at least 300,000 trees each year.  (f)  Federal share  The Federal share of the cost of a covered project assisted by a grant awarded under the Program shall be 90 percent.  (g)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated to carry out the Program, $50,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2026.  (h)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Covered project The term  covered project  means a tree planting project carried out to reduce residential energy consumption. (2)  Eligible cost The term  eligible cost  means, with respect to a covered project— (A)  the cost of carrying out the project, including—  (i)  planning and design activities;   (ii)  establishing nurseries to supply trees;   (iii)  purchasing trees; and   (iv)  preparing sites and planting trees;  (B)  the cost of maintaining and monitoring planted trees for a period of not more than 3 years;  (C)  the cost of training activities; and  (D)  any other cost determined appropriate by the Secretary.  (3)  Eligible entity The term  eligible entity  means each of the following: (A)  A State government entity.  (B)  A local government entity.  (C)  An Indian Tribe.  (D)  A nonprofit organization.  (E)  A retail power provider.  (4)  Energy burden The term  energy burden  means the percentage of household income spent on residential energy bills. (5)  Indian Tribe The term  Indian Tribe  has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ( 25 U.S.C. 5304 ). (6)  Local government entity The term  local government entity  means any municipal government or county government entity with jurisdiction over local land use decisions. (7)  Nonprofit organization The term  nonprofit organization  means an organization described in  section 501(c)(3)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 and exempt from tax under section 501(a) of such Code. (8)  Program The term  Program  means the program established under subsection (a).  (9)  Retail power provider The term  retail power provider  means any entity authorized under State or Federal law to generate, distribute, or provide retail electricity, natural gas, or fuel oil service. (10)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Energy.
