 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Highlands Conservation Reauthorization Act of 2021 .
 2.  Reauthorization of the Highlands Conservation Act The Highlands Conservation Act ( Public Law 108–421 ; 118 Stat. 2375) is amended— (1)  in section 3—  (A)  by amending paragraph (1) to read as follows:  (1)  Highlands region The term  Highlands region  means— (A) the area depicted on the map entitled  The Highlands Region , dated June 2004, updated after the date of enactment of the  Highlands Conservation Reauthorization Act of 2021  to comprise each municipality included on the list of municipalities included in the Highlands region as of that date of enactment, and maintained in the headquarters of the Forest Service in Washington, District of Columbia; and (B)  a municipality approved by the Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service under section 4(e).  ;  (B)  in paragraph (3), by amending subparagraph (B) to read as follows:   (B)  identified by a Highlands State as having high conservation value using the best available science and geographic information systems; and  ;  (C) in paragraph (4)(A), by striking  ; or  and inserting  , including a political subdivision thereof; or ; and (D)  by striking paragraphs (5) through (7);  (2)  in section 4—  (A) in subsection (a)(1), by striking  in the Study  and all that follows through the end of the paragraph and inserting  using the best available science and geographic information systems; and ; (B)  in subsection (c), by amending paragraph (5) to read as follows:  (5)  provides that land conservation partnership projects will be consistent with areas identified as having high conservation value in accordance with the purposes described in section 2 in the Highlands region.  ;  (C) in subsection (e), by striking  $10,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2005 through 2021  and inserting  $20,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2022 through 2028 ; (D)  by redesignating subsection (e) as subsection (g); and  (E)  by inserting after subsection (d) the following:  (e)  Request for inclusion of additional municipality  The Director of the United States Fish and Wildlife Service may, at the request of a Highlands State, approve the inclusion of a municipality within the State as part of the Highlands region.  (f)  Limitation on administrative expenses  (1)  Federal administration  The Secretary of the Interior may not expend more than $300,000 for the administration of this Act in each fiscal year.  (2)  State administration  A State that receives funds under this section for a land conservation partnership project may not use more than 5 percent of the funds to administer the land conservation partnership project.  ;  (3)  in section 5—  (A) in subsection (a), by striking  the Study, Update, and any future study that the Forest Service may undertake in ; (B)  in subsection (b)—  (i) in paragraph (1), by striking  , including a Pennsylvania and Connecticut Update ; and (ii) in paragraph (2), by striking  the findings  and all that follows through the end of the paragraph and inserting  with stakeholders regarding implementation of the program; and ; and (C) in subsection (c), by striking  2005 through 2014  and inserting  2022 through 2028 ; and (4)  in section 6, by adding at the end the following:  (f)  Appraisal methodology  (1)  In general  With respect to an appraisal related to a land acquisition carried out under this Act, a Highlands State may use an appraisal methodology approved by the Secretary of the Interior.  (2)  Alternative appraisal methodology  A Highlands State may petition the Secretary of the Interior to consider an alternative appraisal methodology when there is a conflict, in any Highlands State, between—  (A)  an appraisal methodology approved by the Secretary of the Interior under paragraph (1); and  (B)  applicable State law.  . 
