 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Major Richard Star Act .
 2.  Expansions of eligibility to certain military retirees for concurrent receipt of veterans’ disability compensation and retired pay or combat-related special compensation  (a)  Inclusion of chapter 61 disability retirees with fewer than 20 years of service who are eligible for combat-Related special compensation  Section 1413a(b)(3) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subparagraph (A), by striking  In  and inserting  Subject to subparagraph (B), in ; and (2) in subparagraph (B), by striking  In the case of  and all that follows and inserting  The retired pay of an eligible combat-related disabled uniformed services retiree, who is retired under chapter 61 of this title with fewer than 20 years of creditable service, is not subject to reduction under sections 5304 and 5305 of title 38. . (b)  Technical and conforming amendments  (1)  Section heading  The heading of section 1414 of such title is amended to read as follows:  1414.  Members eligible for retired pay who are also eligible for veterans’ disability compensation: concurrent receipt 
 .  (2)  Table of sections  The item relating to such section 1414 in the table of sections at the beginning of chapter 71 of such title is amended to read as follows:  1414. Members eligible for retired pay who are also eligible for veterans’ disability compensation: concurrent receipt.  .  (3)  Conforming amendments reflecting end of concurrent receipt phase-in period  Such section 1414 is further amended—  (A)  in subsection (a)(1)—  (i)  by striking the second sentence; and  (ii)  by striking subparagraphs (A) and (B);  (B)  by striking subsection (c) and redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively; and  (C)  in subsection (d), as redesignated, by striking paragraphs (3) and (4).  (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the first day of the first month beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply to payments for months beginning on or after that date. 
