 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Follow Accepted Science Together Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Findings  The Congress finds as follows:  (1) The National Institutes of Health reported in March, 2021, that  people who have had evidence of a prior infection with SARS–CoV–2 … appear to be well protected against being reinfected with the virus … . The study stated,  the data from this study suggest that people who have had a positive result from a commercial antibody test appear to have substantial immunity to SARS–CoV–2 which means they are at a lower risk for future infection . (2) The National Institutes of Health reported in January 2021, that  after people recover from infection with a virus, the immune system retains a memory of it. Immune cells and proteins that circulate in the body can recognize and kill the pathogen if it’s encountered again, protecting against disease and reducing illness severity. All of these immune system components have been found in people who recover from SARS–CoV–2, the virus that causes COVID–19. Researchers found durable immune responses in the majority of people studied. . (3)  A study at Emory University in July 2021, found that recovered COVID–19 patients retain broad and effective longer-term immunity to the disease. The study looked at 254 patients with mild to moderate symptoms over a period of eight months and found that their immune response to the virus remained durable and strong.  (4)  Patient and doctor relationships should always be paramount and forefront in each patient’s life.  (5)  Religious, mental health, physical health, immune health, and other exemptions from vaccination requirements give patients and doctors the flexibility to adapt to the limitations or prerequisites of a patient’s health. 
 3.  Inapplicability of any COVID–19 vaccine mandate to individuals with antibodies  Any individual who is demonstrated to have antibodies to the virus that causes COVID–19 shall be exempt from any Federal mandate for vaccination against COVID–19. 
