 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protections for Socially Good Activities Act .
 2.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Employment relationship The term  employment relationship  means any type of joint employer relationship, single employer relationship, or other employment-related status or relationship under any of the laws described in section 3(b). (2)  Franchisee The term  franchisee  means a franchisee, as defined— (A)  in section 436.1(i) of title 16, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act; or  (B)  under an applicable State franchise law.  (3)  Franchisor The term  franchisor  means a franchisor, as defined— (A)  in section 436.1(k) of title 16, Code of Federal Regulations, as in effect on the day before the date of enactment of this Act; or  (B)  under an applicable State franchise law. 
 3.  Safe harbor  (a)  In general  For the purposes of each law described in subsection (b), none of the following may be construed, alone or in combination with any other factor, as establishing an employment relationship between a franchisor (or any employee of the franchisor) and a franchisee (or any employee of the franchisee):  (1)  The franchisor (or any employee of the franchisor) provides the franchisee (or any employee of the franchisee) with, or requires the franchisee (or any employee of the franchisee) to use, a handbook, or other training, on sexual harassment, human trafficking, workplace violence, discrimination, or opportunities for apprenticeships or scholarships policies.  (2)  The franchisor (or any employee of the franchisor) requires the franchisee (or any employee of the franchisee) to adopt a policy on sexual harassment, human trafficking, workplace violence, discrimination, or opportunities for apprenticeships or scholarships, childcare, and paid leave policies including a requirement for the franchisee (or any employee of the franchisee) to report to the franchisor (or any employee of the franchisor) any violations or suspected violations of such policy.  (3) The franchisor (or any employee of the franchisor) requires the franchisee (or any employee of the franchisee) to adopt a policy based on the novel coronavirus (referred to in this paragraph as  COVID–19 ) pandemic such as the use of personal protective equipment or other policies, or the franchisor (or any employee of the franchisor) provides the franchisee (or any employee of the franchisee) with personal protective equipment or other material goods or compensation to help the franchisee (or any employee of the franchisee) during or due to the COVID–19 pandemic.  (b)  Laws  The laws described in this subsection are each of the following:  (1) The National Labor Relations Act ( 29 U.S.C. 151 et seq. ). (2) The Fair Labor Standards Act of 1938 ( 29 U.S.C. 201 et seq. ). (3) The Occupational Safety and Health Act of 1970 ( 29 U.S.C. 651 et seq. ). 
 4.  Preemption Except with respect to the definitions of the terms  franchisee  and  franchisor  under section 2, this Act shall preempt any State law to the extent that such State law is inconsistent with the provisions of this Act.
