 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  China Watcher Act . 
 2.  Establishment of China Watcher Program  (a)  In general  The Secretary of State, in coordination with relevant offices and bureaus of the Department of Defense, shall implement a program, to be known as the “China Watcher Program”, within the Department of State to—  (1)  monitor and combat the People’s Republic of China’s malign influence across military, economic, and political sectors in foreign countries;  (2)  monitor the People’s Republic of China’s military trends abroad and counter its activities and advancements in foreign nations that pose a threat to United States interests and the rules-based order; and   (3)  strengthen the capacity of United States Government to engage with foreign countries and regional and international military, economic, and political organizations and institutions relating to policy coordination regarding the People’s Republic of China and efforts to counter the People’s Republic of China’s malign influence.  (b)  Placement  (1)  In general  In carrying out the China Watcher Program under this section, the Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall place officers in positions in select United States diplomatic and consular posts, in coordination with the Secretary of State, to engage both Chinese and third-country nationals, including host governments and non-government entities, on the matters described in subsection (a).  (2)  Priority  The Secretary of State shall—  (A)  in selecting diplomatic and consular posts, prioritize foreign countries in which Chinese influence has been historically significant and in which United States interests and persons are vulnerable to the People’s Republic of China’s malign activities; and   (B)  in placing personnel in such posts, select, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, personnel within either the Department of State or the Department of Defense who have sufficient subject matter expertise, language skills, and training to carry out their functions effectively.   (c)  Annual report  (1)  In general  Each post or mission with a China Watcher Program shall produce an annual report outlining the steps it has taken to advance the mission, trends and analysis, and the nature and extent of Chinese foreign direct investment and influence in key military, economic, and political sectors, including technology, manufacturing, transportation, energy, metals, agriculture, real estate, and defense.  (2)  Matters to be included  Such report shall include an assessment of the investment, trade, and other risks posed by Chinese malign influence as well as instances of predatory actions by the People’s Republic of China or its affiliates.   (d)  Risk assessment  The annual report required by subsection (c) shall include a risk assessment which shall be made publicly available. The Secretary of State, in consultation with the Secretary of Defense, shall, based on the results of such report, make publicly available a list of countries of concern in regard to the likelihood of economic espionage and coercion or influence of the People’s Republic of China across military, economic, and political sectors.  (e)  Authorization of appropriations  There is authorized to be appropriated $10,000,000 for fiscal year 2022 and each fiscal year thereafter to carry out this section. 
