
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Housing Promotes Livelihood and Ultimate Success Act of 2021  or the  Housing PLUS Act of 2021 .
  2.  Availability of Continuum of Care funds for grantees requiring wraparound services or applying preconditions  Subtitle C of title IV of the McKinney-Vento Homeless Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 11381 et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following new section:

 436.  Availability of funds for grantees requiring wraparound services or applying preconditions 
 (a)  Availability  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the Secretary may not, in making amounts available under this subtitle, prohibit, limit, or restrict the award or amount of grants made with such amounts to or for eligible entities, project sponsors, or recipients—   (1)  that require the provision of supportive services, such as counseling, job training, or addiction treatment, for individuals served by a program, project, or activity assisted with such amounts; 
 (2)  that require, as a condition for occupancy in a project, or assistance from a program, project, or activity, assisted with such amounts that individuals meet certain prerequisites, such as sobriety or lack of drug use; or   (3)  faith-based organizations. 
 (b)  Set aside  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, in making available amounts under this subtitle for each fiscal year, the Secretary shall ensure that not less than 30 percent of such amounts shall be used by eligible entities, project sponsors, and recipients that provide or offer access to wraparound services.   (c)  Accountability  Not later than 180 days after the completion of each fiscal year, the Secretary shall submit, to the House Committee on Financial Services of the House of Representatives and Committee on Banking, Housing and Urban Affairs of the Senate, for such fiscal year— 
 (1)  a written certification that the amounts made available for carrying out this subtitle were made available in compliance with subsections (a) and (b) of this section; and   (2)  a report specifying how the Notices of Funding Opportunity for such fiscal year for amounts made available for carrying out this subtitle evidence such compliance. 
 . 

