 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Bring Animals Relief and Kibble Act of 2021  or as the  BARK Act of 2021 .
 2.  Amendment to definitions Section 22(b) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 ( 42 U.S.C. 1791(b) ) is amended— (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting before the period at the end the following:  , and includes pet supplies ;  (2) in paragraph (4), by inserting after  human consumption  and inserting the following:  or pet, emotional support animal, or service animal consumption ; (3) in paragraph (10), by inserting after  caterer, farmer,  the following  pet food supplier, ;  (4)  by adding at the end the following:   (11)  Emotional support animal The term  emotional support animal  means an animal that is covered by the exclusion specified in section 5.303 of title 24, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation), and that is not a service animal. (12)  Pet The term  pet  means a domesticated animal, such as a dog, cat, bird, rodent, fish, turtle, or other animal that is kept for pleasure rather than for commercial purposes. (13)  Pet supplies The term  pet supplies  means tangible personal property used for pets, including pet carriers, crates, kennels, houses, cages, clothing, bedding, toys, collars, leashes, leads, tie-outs, feeders, bowls, dishes, pet gates, or pet doors. (14)  Service animal The term  service animal  has the meaning given the term in section 36.104 of title 28, Code of Federal Regulations (or a successor regulation). . 
 3.  Expansion of scope of purposes for donation Section 22(c) of the Child Nutrition Act of 1966 ( 42 U.S.C. 1791(c) ) is amended— (1) in paragraph (1), by inserting after  donates in good faith to a nonprofit organization  the following:  or, in case only of a donation for ultimate distribution to pets, to a State or unit of local government, ; (2) in paragraph (2), by adding at the end the following:  A unit of local government shall not be subject to liability arising from the nature, age, packaging, or condition of apparently wholesome food or an apparently fit grocery product that the unit of local government received as a donation in good faith from a person or gleaner for ultimate distribution to pets. ; and (3) by inserting after  needy individuals  each place it appears the following:  or pets . 
