 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Aretha Franklin Congressional Gold Medal Act .
 2.  Findings  The Congress finds the following:  (1)  Aretha Franklin was born on March 25, 1942, in Memphis, Tennessee, and died peacefully at her home in Detroit, Michigan, surrounded by family and loved ones on August 16, 2018.  (2)  Aretha Franklin’s musical talents have influenced generations of musicians and political leaders, creating a legacy that spans an incredible 6 decades.  (3) Aretha Franklin, dubbed the  Queen of Soul , was the first woman ever inducted into the Rock and Roll Hall of Fame, was a 2005 recipient of the Presidential Medal of Freedom, and was a 1999 recipient of the National Medal of Arts and Humanities Award, among other accolades. (4)  Aretha Franklin’s music served as a 1960s call to action that inspired thousands to join civil rights movements and still resonates across these movements today.  (5)  Aretha Franklin’s contributions go beyond music and arts.  (6)  Aretha Franklin was also a philanthropist who supported causes that advanced civil rights, human health, and gender equality.  (7)  Aretha Franklin’s talents instilled hope, uplifted generations, and changed the lives of millions of people across the globe.  (8)  The City of Detroit shaped Aretha’s life and music, as her father and church introduced her to local Motown artists.  (9)  In return, Aretha made countless contributions to the City of Detroit, and few people have played a greater role in shaping the Nation’s culturally and socially relevant discography than Aretha Franklin. 
 3.  Congressional Gold Medal  (a)  Presentation authorized  The Speaker of the House of Representatives and the President pro tempore of the Senate shall make appropriate arrangements for the posthumous presentation, on behalf of Congress, of a gold medal of appropriate design in commemoration of Aretha Franklin, in recognition of her outstanding artistic and historical significance to the culture of the United States.  (b)  Design and striking For purposes of the presentation referred to in subsection (a), the Secretary of the Treasury (hereafter in this Act referred to as the  Secretary ) shall strike a gold medal with suitable emblems, devices, and inscriptions, to be determined by the Secretary. (c)  Smithsonian Institution  (1)  In general  Following the award of the gold medal referred to in subsection (a), the gold medal shall be given to the Smithsonian Institution, where it will be displayed as appropriate and made available for research.  (2)  Sense of Congress  It is the sense of Congress that the Smithsonian Institution should make the gold medal received under this Act available for display elsewhere, particularly at other locations and events associated with Aretha Franklin. 
 4.  Duplicate medals  The Secretary may strike and sell duplicates in bronze of the gold medal struck pursuant to section 3 under such regulations as the Secretary may prescribe, at a price sufficient to cover the cost thereof, including labor, materials, dies, use of machinery, and overhead expenses. 
 5.  Status of medals  (a)  National medals The medals struck pursuant to this Act are national medals for purposes of  chapter 51  of title 31, United States Code. (b)  Numismatic items  For purposes of section 5134 of title 31, United States Code, all medals struck under this Act shall be considered to be numismatic items. 
