 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Promoting Access to Capital in Underbanked Communities Act of 2021 .
 2.  Findings  The Congress finds the following:  (1)  Trends in bank closures and consolidation have left many communities without access to banking services and disproportionately impact underserved rural and urban communities.  (2)  De novo bank formation has slowed significantly following the financial crisis.  (3) A November 2019 report by the Federal Reserve System found that 44 counties in the U.S. were  deeply affected  by trends in bank closures and consolidation (i.e., had fewer than 10 branches in 2012 and lost at least 50 percent of them by 2017). (4)  89 percent of the deeply affected counties were rural.  (5)  Rural counties deeply affected by branch closures had higher poverty rates, lower median income, and a higher share of their population were African American compared to all rural communities. 
 3.  Phase-in of capital standards  The appropriate Federal banking agencies shall issue rules that provide for a 3-year phase-in period for a financial institution to meet any Federal capital requirements that would otherwise be applicable to the financial institution, where such 3-year period begins on the date on which the deposit insurance that the financial institution has obtained from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation becomes effective. 
 4.  Changes to business plans  (a)  In general  During the 3-year period beginning on the date on which the deposit insurance that the financial institution has obtained from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation becomes effective, a financial institution may request to deviate from a business plan that has been approved by the appropriate Federal banking agency by submitting a request to such agency pursuant to this section.  (b)  Review of changes  An appropriate Federal banking agency shall, not later than the end of the 30-day period beginning on the receipt of a request under subsection (a)—  (1)  approve, conditionally approve, or deny such request; and  (2)  notify the financial institution of such decision and, if the agency denies the request—  (A)  provide the financial institution with the reason for such denial; and  (B)  suggest changes to the request that, if adopted, would allow the agency to approve such request.  (c)  Result of failure To act  If an appropriate Federal banking agency fails to approve or deny a request within the 30-day period required under subsection (b), such request shall be deemed to be approved. 
 5.  Rural community bank leverage ratio  (a)  In general  During the 3-year period beginning on the date on which the deposit insurance that a rural community bank has obtained from the Federal Deposit Insurance Corporation becomes effective, the Community Bank Leverage Ratio for the rural community bank shall be 8 percent.  (b)  Phase-In authority  The Federal banking agencies shall issue rules to phase-in the Community Bank Leverage Ratio described under subsection (a) with respect to a rural community bank by setting lower Community Bank Leverage Ratio percentages during the first 2 years of the 3-year period described under subsection (a).  (c)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Community Bank Leverage Ratio The term  Community Bank Leverage Ratio  has the meaning given that term under section 201(a) of the Economic Growth, Regulatory Relief, and Consumer Protection Act ( 12 U.S.C. 5371  note). (2)  Federal banking agency The term  Federal banking agency  has the meaning given that term under section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act ( 12 U.S.C. 1813 ). (3)  Rural community bank The term  rural community bank  means a financial institution— (A)  with total consolidated assets of less than $10,000,000,000; and  (B)  located in a rural area, as defined under section 1026.35(b)(iv)(A) of title 12, Code of Federal Regulations. 
 6.  Agricultural loan authority for Federal savings associations Section 5(c) of the Home Owners’ Loan Act ( 12 U.S.C. 1464(c) ) is amended— (1)  in paragraph (1), by adding at the end the following:  (V)  Agricultural loans  Secured or unsecured loans for agricultural purposes.  ; and  (2) in paragraph (2)(A), by striking  business, or agricultural  and inserting  or business . 
 7.  Study on de novo financial institution  (a)  Study  The appropriate Federal banking agencies shall, jointly, carry out a study on—  (1)  the principal causes for the low number of de novo financial institutions in the 10-year period ending on the date of enactment of this Act; and  (2)  ways to promote more de novo financial institutions in areas currently underserved by financial institutions.  (b)  Report to Congress  Not later than the end of the 1-year period beginning on the date of enactment of this Act, the appropriate Federal banking agencies shall, jointly, issue a report to Congress containing all findings and determinations made in carrying out the study required under subsection (a). 
 8.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Financial institution The term  financial institution  means a depository institution or depository institution holding company. (2)  Other banking terms The terms  appropriate Federal banking agency ,  depository institution , and  depository institution holding company  have the meaning given those terms, respectively, under section 3 of the Federal Deposit Insurance Act.
