 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Preventing Animal Abuse and Waste Act of 2021  or the  PAAW Act of 2021 .
 2.  Prohibition on research causing significant pain or distress to dogs  (a)  In general Subpart 6 of part C of title IV of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 285f et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following: 447D.  Prohibition on research causing significant pain or distress to dogs  (a)  In general  The Director of the Institute may not conduct or support any research that causes significant pain or distress to a dog.  (b)  Definition In this section, the term  research that causes significant pain or distress  includes any study classified in pain category D or E by the Department of Agriculture.
 .  (b)  Applicability  The amendment made by subsection (a) applies beginning on the date that is 90 days after the date of enactment of this Act. 
 3.  Reporting  (a)  NIH study on research causing pain or distress to dogs  (1)  In general  Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the National Institutes of Health shall—  (A)  submit a report to the Congress on all ongoing or prospective research that causes significant pain or distress to a dog conducted or supported by the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Disease; and  (B)  include in such report the amount of funds obligated or estimated to be obligated for each such research.  (2)  Definition In this section, the term  research that causes significant pain or distress  includes any study classified in pain category C, D, or E by the Department of Agriculture. (b)  NIAID study on efforts To phase out use of dogs in testing  Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases shall submit a report to the Congress on—  (1)  the efforts to phase out the use of dogs in studies that are conducted or supported by the Institute; and  (2)  any barriers to such phase out. 
