
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Social and Economic Equity Promotion Act . 
  2.  Establishment of the Division of Social and Economic Equity   (a)  In general Section 201 of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 ( 2 U.S.C. 601 ) is amended—
 (1)  by redesignating subsections (b) through (g) as subsections (c) through (h), respectively; and   (2)  by inserting after subsection (a) the following new subsection: 

 (b)  Division of Social and Economic Equity  There is established in the Office the Division of Social and Economic Equity to carry out the equity analyses required by section 402.  .   (b)  Analyses of equity impact Section 402 of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 ( 2 U.S.C. 653 ) is amended—
 (1)  by redesignating paragraph (3) as paragraph (4);   (2) in paragraph (2), by striking  and ;
 (3)  by inserting after paragraph (2) the following new paragraph:     (3)  as the chair or ranking member of the Committee on the Budget of the House of Representatives determines appropriate, an analysis carried out by the Division of Social and Economic Equity of the impact on equity resulting from the enactment of such bill or resolution in the fiscal year in which it is to become effective and in each of the 4 fiscal years following such fiscal year, together with the basis for each such analysis; and  ; and 
 (4) in the last sentence, by striking  and  and inserting  analysis, and .   (c)  Definitions Section 3 of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 ( 2 U.S.C. 622 ) is amended by adding at the end the following:

 (12) The term  equity  means the consistent and systematic fair, just, and impartial treatment of all individuals, including individuals who belong to underserved communities that have been denied such treatment, such as Black, Latino, and Indigenous and Native American individuals, Asian Americans and Pacific Islanders and other individuals of color, members of religious minorities, lesbian, gay, bisexual, transgender, and queer individuals, individuals with disabilities, individuals who live in rural areas, and individuals otherwise adversely affected by persistent poverty or inequality.  (13) The term  underserved communities  means populations that share a particular characteristic, including with respect to geographic area, that have been systematically denied a full opportunity to participate in aspects of economic, social, and civic life, including populations of individuals described in paragraph (12).  . 
 (d)  Report Not later than 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, the Director of the Congressional Budget Office shall, in consultation with the Select Committee on Economic Disparity and Fairness in Growth of the House of Representatives, submit a report to each House of Congress of how the Office plans to carry out the equity analyses required by section 402 of the Congressional Budget and Impoundment Control Act of 1974 ( 2 U.S.C. 653 ), as amended by this Act.  (e)  Effective date The amendments made by this Act shall take effect 6 months after the date the report required by  subsection (d)  is submitted to both Houses of Congress.  

