 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Supporting Apprenticeship Colleges Act of 2021 .
 2.  Community outreach grant program  (a)  In general  From the amounts appropriated under subsection (f), the Secretary of Education shall provide grants to eligible entities for the purposes of expanding or supporting potential student and employer outreach carried out by such entities with respect to the construction and manufacturing-oriented registered apprenticeship programs offered by such entities.   (b)  Amounts  The total grant amount made to an eligible entity under this section may not exceed $500,000.  (c)  Use of grants  An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall use such grant for the outreach described in subsection (a), which shall include the following:  (1)  Outreach to high schools, for the purpose of educating students, parents, guardians, and faculty on the benefits of enrolling in the construction and manufacturing-oriented registered apprenticeship program offered by the eligible entity.  (2)  Outreach to local businesses and other potential employers for the purpose of educating such employers on the benefits of hiring graduates of such program, which shall—  (A)  primarily target relationship building with potential employers in rural, exurban, and suburban areas; and  (B)  seek to maximize the number of students who work in such areas after completing such program.  (3)  Outreach to local workforce development boards for the purpose of reaching nontraditional student populations and prioritizing local needs.  (d)  Application requirements  An eligible entity seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.  (e)  Priority  In awarding grants under this section, the Secretary shall give priority to eligible entities that demonstrate outreach efforts targeted at increasing program enrollment for rural, first generation, minority, and nontraditional students, or other students from underrepresented population.  (f)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated $5,000,000 to carry out this section for each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2025. 
 3.  Student support grant program for expanded academic advising  (a)  In general  From the amounts appropriated under subsection (g), the Secretary of Education shall provide grants to eligible entities for the activities described in subsection (d).  (b)  Amounts  The total grant amount made to an eligible entity under this section may not exceed $500,000.  (c)  Multiple grants permitted  An eligible entity may receive a grant under sections 2 and 3.  (d)  Use of grants  (1)  In general  An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall use such grant for advising and support services to enrollees of construction and manufacturing-oriented registered apprenticeship programs offered by such entity to increase retention and persistence for students.   (2)  Requirements  Such advising and support services shall include the following:  (A)  Expanding academic advising programs that provide services to students, including the following:  (i)  Career advising and professional development.  (ii)  Support for English as a second language students.  (iii)  Information and resource systems.  (iv)  Mentoring systems.  (v)  Other such programs.  (B)  Expanding student support programs that provide services to students, including the following:  (i)  Health and family-related services, including substance abuse disorder and mental health counseling.  (ii)  Support for first-generation students.  (iii)  Childcare support.  (iv)  Other such programs.  (v) In the case of an eligible entity that is a construction and manufacturing-oriented registered apprenticeship program, maintaining its accreditation by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association recognized by the Secretary of Education pursuant to part H of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1099a  et seq.), (e)  Application requirements  An eligible entity seeking a grant under this section shall submit an application to the Secretary at such time, in such manner, and containing such information as the Secretary may require.  (f)  Report  (1)  In general  An eligible entity that receives a grant under this section shall submit to the Secretary a report on—  (A)  the activities supported by the grant;  (B)  the number of students participating in the activities supported by the grant;  (C)  any progress made in achieving the goals of the program supported by the grant, in general, and measuring in particular—  (i)  the effectiveness of the grant in expanding overall enrollment and program completion rates; and  (ii)  the effectiveness of the grant in expanding enrollment and program completion rates for underrepresented populations; and  (D)  such other information as the Secretary determines to be appropriate.  (2)  Timeline for submission of report  The report under paragraph (1) shall be submitted to the Secretary not later than 180 days after the date on which the eligible entity concludes the activities supported by the grant under this section.  (g)  Authorization of appropriations  There are authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section $5,000,000 for each of the fiscal years 2021 through 2025. 
 4.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Construction and manufacturing-oriented apprenticeship college The term  construction and manufacturing-oriented apprenticeship college  means— (A)  an institution of higher education that is a sponsor of a construction and manufacturing-oriented registered apprenticeship program; or  (B)  a construction and manufacturing-oriented registered apprenticeship program.  (2)  Construction and manufacturing-oriented registered apprenticeship program The term  construction and manufacturing-oriented registered apprenticeship program  means a registered apprenticeship program that— (A)  provides coursework and training in preparation for employment in the construction or manufactory industry (such as employment as a painter, drywall finisher, glazier, or glassworker);   (B)  (i)  leads to a recognized postsecondary credential other than a certificate of completion of an apprenticeship; or  (ii)  awards credits that can be applied toward a recognized postsecondary credential; and  (C) is accredited by a nationally recognized accrediting agency or association recognized by the Secretary of Education pursuant to part H of title IV of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1099a  et seq.).  (3)  Eligible entity The term  eligible entity  means a construction and manufacturing-oriented apprenticeship college. (4)  First generation college student The term  first generation college student  has the meaning given the term in section 402A(h) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1070a–11(h) ). (5)  High school The term  high school  has the meaning given the term in section 8101 of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7801 ). (6)  Institution of higher education The term  institution of higher education  has the meaning given the term in section 101(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1001(a) ). (7)  Outreach The term  outreach  means communications and relationship-building opportunities undertaken by an eligible entity. (8)  Recognized postsecondary credential The term  recognized postsecondary credential  has the meaning given the term in section 3 of the Workforce Innovation and Opportunity Act ( 29 U.S.C. 3102 ).  (9)  Registered apprenticeship program The term  registered apprenticeship program  means an apprenticeship program registered under the Act of August 16, 1937 (commonly known as the  National Apprenticeship Act ; 50 Stat. 664, chapter 663;  29 U.S.C. 50  et seq.). (10)  Second language The term  second language  means any language other than English, including Braille and American Sign Language. (11)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Education. (12)  Underrepresented population The term  underrepresented population  means an individual who is from a group whose gender, ethnic background, or national origin is not traditionally represented in registered apprenticeship programs.
