
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Military Sexual Trauma Retirement Equity Act .
  2.  Extension of eligibility for certain special compensation to certain retired survivors of military sexual trauma   (a)  In general  Section 1413a of title 10, United States Code, is amended— 
 (1) by striking  combat-related  each place it appears and inserting  trauma-related ;  (2)  in subsection (d)— 
 (A) by inserting  (1)  before  The Secretary ;  (B) by inserting  under paragraph (1) or (2) of subsection (e)  before the period at the end of the first sentence; and
 (C)  by adding at the end the following new paragraph:    (2)  The Secretary of Defense shall treat a disabled uniformed services retiree with a trauma-related disability, determined by the Secretary of Veterans Affairs under paragraph (3) of subsection (e), as an eligible trauma-related disabled uniformed services retiree.  ; 
 (3)  in subsection (e)—   (A) in paragraph (1), by striking  ; or  and inserting a semicolon;
 (B) in paragraph (2)(D), by striking the period at the end and inserting  ; or ; and  (C)  by adding at the end the following new paragraph: 

 (3)  the Secretary of Veterans Affairs has determined was the result of military sexual trauma.  ; and   (4)  in subsection (i), by striking paragraph (1) and inserting following new paragraph: 

 (1) The term  military sexual trauma  has the meaning given such term in section 1166 of title 38. .   (b)  Clerical amendments   (1)  Headings  Such section is amended— 
 (A) in the heading by striking  Combat-related  and inserting  Trauma-related ; and  (B) in the heading of subsection (e) by striking  Combat-Related  and inserting  Trauma-Related  .
 (2)  Table of sections  The table of sections at the beginning of chapter 71 of such title is amended by striking the item relating to section 1413a and inserting the following:     1413a. Trauma-related special compensation.  .   (c)  Conforming amendments  Such title is amended— 
 (1)  in section 1414(d)—   (A) in paragraph (1), by striking  combat-related  and inserting  trauma-related ; and
 (B) in the heading, by striking  Combat-Related  and inserting  Trauma-Related ;  (2)  in section 1449(b)(2)— 
 (A) by striking  combat-related  and inserting  trauma-related ; and  (B) in the heading, by striking  CRSC  and inserting  TRSC ;
 (3)  in section 1450(e)—   (A) in paragraph (1), by striking  combat-related  and inserting  trauma-related ; and
 (B) in the heading, by striking  CRSC  and inserting  TRSC ; and  (4)  in section 1452— 
 (A) by striking  combat-related  each place it appears and inserting  trauma-related ;  (B) in subsection (d)(2), in the heading, by striking  combat-related  and inserting  trauma-related ; and
 (C) in subsection (g)(4), in the heading, by striking  CRSC  and inserting  TRSC .
 