 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  For the Parents Act .
 2.  Guidance and report by the Secretary of Education  (a)  Guidance  Not later than 60 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education shall issue guidance to States and institutions of higher education on—  (1)  banning, in public education, the teaching of critical race theory, and the usage of any teaching methodology or curriculum that promotes or causes a racial divide or lack of equality; and  (2)  requiring that all races be treated equally.  (b)  Report  Not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Education shall submit to the Committee on Education and Labor of the House of Representatives and the Committee on Health, Education, Labor, and Pensions of the Senate a report on the status of critical race theory usage in public education and any instances where racial divides are promoted through any training or education requirements, including—  (1)  an identification of the public elementary schools or secondary schools, or institutions of higher education that have used or promoted critical race theory or racial divides; and  (2)  an identification of whether any teacher or faculty members have been punished for speaking out against these activities.  (c)  Critical race theory defined In this section, the term  critical race theory  means a theory that provides for any of the following: (1)  Any race is inherently superior or inferior to any other race.  (2)  The United States is a fundamentally racist country.  (3)  The Declaration of Independence or the United States Constitution are fundamentally racist documents.  (4)   An individual's moral worth is determined by his or her race.  (5)  An individual, by virtue of his or her race, is inherently racist or oppressive, whether consciously or unconsciously.  (6)  An individual, because of his or her race, bears responsibility for the actions committed by members of his or her race. 
 3.  Enforcement of requirements for institutions of higher education Section 487(a) of the Higher Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 1094(a) ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (30)  The institution will comply with the guidance issued by the Secretary under section 2(a) of the Equality in Education Act.  . 
 4.  Enforcement of requirements for public elementary schools and secondary schools Subpart 2 of part F of title VIII of the Elementary and Secondary Education Act of 1965 ( 20 U.S.C. 7901 et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following:  8549D.  Enforcement of guidance on equality in education  (a)  In general  Each State receiving funds under this Act shall ensure that each public elementary school and secondary school in the State is in compliance with the guidance issued by the Secretary under section 2(a) of the Equality in Education Act.  (b)  Certification  As a condition of receiving funds under this Act, a State shall certify in writing to the Secretary that the State is in compliance with this section. 
 . 
