
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  State Tax Freedom Act .
  2.  Refunds to offset Coronavirus State Fiscal Recovery funds already repaid by reason lowering taxes   (a)  In general Subchapter B of  chapter 65  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after section 6423 the following new section:

 6424.  Refunds to States to offset certain required repayments of Coronavirus State Fiscal Recovery funds 
 (a)  In general  As soon as practicable after any specified State pays any specified repayment, the Secretary shall make a payment to such specified State in an amount equal to such specified repayment.    (b)  Specified repayment For purposes of this section, the term  specified repayment  means any repayment required to be made under subsection (e) of section 602 of the Social Security Act by reason of subsection (c)(2)(A) thereof.
 (c)  Specified State The term  specified State  means any State, territory, or Tribal government which is required to make to any specified repayment.   (d)  Other terms The terms  State ,  territory , and  Tribal government  shall have the same respective meanings as when used in section 602 of the Social Security Act.
 (e)  Treatment of payments  For purposes of section 1324 of title 31, United States Code, the payments under this subsection shall be treated in the same manner as a refund due from a credit provision referred to in subsection (b)(2) of such section. 
 .   (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections for subchapter B of chapter 65 of such Code is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 6423 the following new item: 


 Sec. 6424. Refunds to States to offset certain required repayments of coronavirus State and local fiscal recovery funds.  . 
 (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to repayments paid after the date of the enactment of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021. 
  3.  Elimination of prohibition on States receiving Coronavirus State Fiscal Recovery funds from lowering taxes   (a)  In general  Paragraph (2) of section 602(c) of the Social Security Act, as added by section 9901 of the American Rescue Plan Act of 2021, is amended to read as follows: 

 (2)  Further restriction on use of funds  No State or territory may use funds made available under this section for deposit into any pension fund.  .   (b)  Conforming amendments  Section 602 of such Act is further amended— 
 (1) in subsection (d)(2)(A), by striking  , including, in the case of a State or a territory, all modifications to the State's or territory's tax revenue sources during the covered period ;  (2) in subsection (e), by striking  such subsection,  and all that follows through the period and inserting  such subsection. ; and
 (3)  in subsection (g)—   (A)  by striking paragraph (1); and 
 (B)  by redesignating paragraphs (2) through (7) as paragraphs (1) through (6), respectively.   (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply with respect to repayments which would (but for such amendments) be required to be paid after the date of the enactment of this Act.  

