 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  You Must Be Alive To Vote Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Requiring States to obtain information from Social Security Administration on deaths for purposes of voter registration list maintenance  (a)  In general Section 8(a)(4)(A) of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993 ( 52 U.S.C. 20507(a)(4)(A) ) is amended to read as follows: (A)  the death of the registrant, as determined on the basis of information obtained through records of the State and of information obtained through ongoing consultation with the Social Security Administration; or  .  (b)  Authority To match data Section 205(r) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 405(r) ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (10)  The Commissioner of Social Security shall, upon the request of a State pursuant to section 8(a)(4)(A) of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993—  (A)  enter into an agreement with the State for the purpose of matching data in the records of the Social Security Administration and the official list of eligible voters of the State; and  (B)  include in such agreement safeguards to assure the maintenance of the confidentiality of any information disclosed.  .  (c)  Annual certification; enforcement  (1)  Certification  Each State shall certify, with respect to each calendar year, to the Secretary of Education and the Secretary of Transportation that the State has in place an agreement with the Social Security Administration to share death information for purposes of section 8(a)(4)(A) of the National Voter Registration Act of 1993.  (2)  Penalties for noncompliance  With respect to any calendar year in which a State has failed to so certify, the Secretaries of Education and Transportation may not make available any Federal funds to the State, any county within the State, or any resident of the State.  (d)  Definitions  In this section—  (1) the term  State  means a State of the United States and the District of Columbia; and (2) the term  county  means a parish in Louisiana, a borough in Alaska, or a county in the other 48 States.  (e)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall take effect 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act. 
