 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Save Affordable Housing Act of 2021 .
 2.  Repeal of qualified contract option  (a)  Termination of option for certain buildings  (1)  In general Subclause (II) of  section 42(h)(6)(E)(i)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting  in the case of a building described in clause (iii),  before  on the last day . (2)  Buildings described  Subparagraph (E) of section 42(h)(6) of such Code is amended by adding at the end the following new clause:  (iii)  Buildings described  A building described in this clause is a building—  (I)  which received its allocation of housing credit dollar amount before January 1, 2019, or  (II)  in the case of a building any portion of which is financed as described in paragraph (4), which received before January 1, 2019, a determination from the issuer of the tax-exempt bonds or the housing credit agency that the building is eligible to receive an allocation of housing credit dollar amount under the rules of paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (m).  .  (b)  Rules relating to existing projects Subparagraph (F) of  section 42(h)(6)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  the nonlow-income portion  and all that follows and inserting  the nonlow-income portion and the low-income portion of the building for fair market value (determined by the housing credit agency by taking into account the rent restrictions required for the low-income portion of the building to continue to meet the standards of paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (g)). The Secretary shall prescribe such regulations as may be necessary or appropriate to carry out this paragraph. . (c)  Conforming amendments  (1) Paragraph (6) of  section 42(h)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking subparagraph (G) and by redesignating subparagraphs (H), (I), (J), and (K) as subparagraphs (G), (H), (I), and (J), respectively. (2) Subclause (II) of section 42(h)(6)(E)(i) of such Code, as amended by subsection (a), is further amended by striking  subparagraph (I)  and inserting  subparagraph (H) . (d)  Technical amendment Subparagraph (I) of  section 42(h)(6)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as redesignated by subsection (c), is amended by striking  agreement  and inserting  commitment . (e)  Effective date The amendments made by this section shall apply to buildings with respect to which a written request described in  section 42(h)(6)(H)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986, as redesignated by subsection (c), is submitted after the date of the enactment of this Act.
