 1.  Siletz Reservation Act amendment Section 4 of  Public Law 96–340  (commonly known as the  Siletz Reservation Act ) (96 Stat. 1074) is amended to read as follows: 4.  Hunting, fishing, trapping, and animal gathering  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Consent decree The term  Consent Decree  means the final judgment and decree of the United States District Court for the District of Oregon, in the action entitled  Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians of Oregon against State of Oregon , entered on May 2, 1980.  (2)  Indian Tribe The term  Indian Tribe  has the meaning given the term in section 4 of the Indian Self-Determination and Education Assistance Act ( 25 U.S.C. 5304 ). (3)  Siletz Agreement The term  Siletz Agreement  means the agreement entitled  Agreement Among the State of Oregon, the United States of America and the Confederated Tribes of the Siletz Indians of Oregon to Permanently Define Tribal Hunting, Fishing, Trapping, and Gathering Rights of the Siletz Tribe and its Members  and entered into by the United States on April 22, 1980.  (b)  Hunting, fishing, trapping, and animal gathering agreements  (1)  In general  The Siletz Agreement shall remain in effect until and unless replaced, amended, or otherwise modified by 1 or more successor government-to-government agreements between the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians and the State of Oregon relating to the hunting, fishing, trapping, and animal gathering rights of the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians.  (2)  Amendments  The Siletz Agreement or any successor agreement entered into under paragraph (1) may be amended from time to time by mutual consent of the Confederated Tribes of Siletz Indians and the State of Oregon.  (c)  Judicial review  In any action brought in the United States District Court for the District of Oregon to rescind, overturn, modify, or provide relief under Federal law from the Consent Decree, the United States District Court for the District of Oregon shall review the application of the parties on the merits without regard to the defense of res judicata or collateral estoppel.   (d)  Effect  Nothing in this section enlarges, confirms, adjudicates, affects, or modifies any treaty or other right of an Indian Tribe. 
 . 
