 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Justice for Servicemembers Act .
 2.  Purposes  The purposes of this Act are—  (1) to prohibit predispute arbitration agreements that force arbitration of disputes arising from claims brought under  chapter 43  of title 38 of the United States Code (relating to employment and reemployment rights of members of the uniformed services) and the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act ( 50 U.S.C. 3901–4043 ); and (2)  to prohibit agreements and practices that interfere with the right of persons to participate in a joint, class, or collective action related to disputes arising from claims brought under the provisions of such laws. 
 3.  Arbitration of disputes involving the rights of servicemembers and veterans  (a)  In general  Title 9 of the United States Code is amended by adding at the end the following:  4  Arbitration of Servicemember and Veteran Disputes  Sec.  401. Definitions.  402. No validity or enforceability.  401.  Definitions  In this chapter—  (1) the term  predispute arbitration agreement  means an agreement to arbitrate a dispute that has not yet arisen at the time of the making of the agreement; and (2) the term  predispute joint-action waiver  means an agreement, whether or not part of a predispute arbitration agreement, that would prohibit, or waive the right of, one of the parties to the agreement to participate in a joint, class, or collective action in a judicial, arbitral, administrative, or other forum, concerning a dispute that has not yet arisen at the time of the making of the agreement.
 402.  No validity or enforceability  (a)  In general Notwithstanding any other provision of this title, no predispute arbitration agreement or predispute joint-action waiver shall be valid or enforceable with respect to a dispute relating to disputes arising under  chapter 43  of title 38 or the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act. (b)  Applicability  (1)  In general  An issue as to whether this chapter applies with respect to a dispute shall be determined under Federal law. The applicability of this chapter to an agreement to arbitrate and the validity and enforceability of an agreement to which this chapter applies shall be determined by a court, rather than an arbitrator, irrespective of whether the party resisting arbitration challenges the arbitration agreement specifically or in conjunction with other terms of the contract containing such agreement, and irrespective of whether the agreement purports to delegate such determinations to an arbitrator.  (2)  Collective bargaining agreements  Nothing in this chapter shall apply to any arbitration provision in a contract between an employer and a labor organization or between labor organizations, except that no such arbitration provision shall have the effect of waiving the right of a worker to seek judicial enforcement of a right arising under a provision of the Constitution of the United States, a State constitution, or a Federal or State statute, or public policy arising therefrom. 
 .  (b)  Technical and conforming amendments  (1)  In general  Title 9 of the United States Code is amended—  (A) in section 1 by striking  of seamen,  and all that follows through  interstate commerce  and inserting persons and causes of action under  chapter 43  of title 38 or the Servicemembers Civil Relief Act; (B) in section 2 by inserting  or as otherwise provided in chapter 4  before the period at the end; (C)  in section 208—  (i) in the section heading by striking  Chapter 1; residual application  and inserting  Application ; and (ii) by adding at the end the following:  This chapter applies to the extent that this chapter is not in conflict with chapter 4. ; and (D)  in section 307—  (i) in the section heading, by striking  Chapter 1; residual application  and inserting  Application ; and (ii) by adding at the end the following:  This chapter applies to the extent that this chapter is not in conflict with chapter 4. . (2)  Table of sections  (A)  Chapter 2 The table of sections of  chapter 2  of title 9, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 208 and inserting the following: 208. Application.  .  (B)  Chapter 3 The table of sections of  chapter 3  of title 9, United States Code, is amended by striking the item relating to section 307 and inserting the following: 307. Application.  .  (3)  Table of chapters  The table of chapters of title 9, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following:  4. Arbitration of servicemember and veteran disputes  . 
 4.  Limitation on waiver of rights and protections under Servicemembers Civil Relief Act  (a)  Amendments Section 107(a) of the Ser­vice­mem­bars Civil Relief Act ( 50 U.S.C. 3918(a) ) is amended— (1) in the second sentence by inserting  and if it is made after a specific dispute has arisen and the dispute is identified in the waiver  before the period at the end; and (2) in the third sentence by inserting  and if it is made after a specific dispute has arisen and the dispute is identified in the waiver  before the period at the end. (b)  Application of amendments  The amendments made by subsection (a) shall apply with respect to waivers made on or after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
 5.  Effective date  This Act, and the amendments made by this Act, shall take effect on the date of enactment of this Act and shall apply with respect to any dispute or claim that arises or accrues on or after such date. 
