 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Fallen First-Responders’ Family Naturalization Fee-Relief Act of 2021  .
 2.  Exemption of fees for immediate relatives of deceased or injured firefighters and law enforcement officers  (a)  In general  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Homeland Security shall include on a certain application or petition an opportunity for—  (1)  an immediate relative of a deceased or injured firefighter or law enforcement officer to identify themselves as such a relative; and   (2)  an injured firefighter or law enforcement officer to identify themselves as such an individual.   (b)  Fee exemption  The Secretary shall exempt an individual described in subsection (a), who identifies as such an individual on a certain application or petition, from a fee with respect to a certain application or petition and any associated fee for biometrics.   (c)  Pending applications and petitions  The Secretary of Homeland Security may waive fees for a certain application or petition and any associated fee for biometrics for an individual described in subsection (a), if such application or petition is submitted not more than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act.   (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Deceased or injured firefighter or law enforcement officer  (A)  In general The term  deceased or injured firefighter or law enforcement officer  means a firefighter or law enforcement officer who died or was permanently and totally disabled as the direct and proximate result of a personal injury sustained in the line of duty.  (B)  Determination The Secretary of Homeland Security may make the determination of whether a firefighter or law enforcement officer died or was permanently and totally disabled as a direct and proximate result of a personal injury sustained in the line of duty in accordance with part L of title I of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ( 34 U.S.C. 10281 et seq. ).  (2)  Certain application or petition The term  certain application or petition  means— (A)  an application using Form–400, Application for Naturalization (or any successor form); or  (B)  a petition using Form I–360, Petition for Amerasian, Widow(er), or Special Immigrant (or any successor form).   (3)  Immediate relative The term  immediate relative  has the meaning given such term in section 201(b) of the Immigration and Nationality Act ( 8 U.S.C. 1151(b) ). (4)  Firefighter; law enforcement officer The terms  firefighter  and  law enforcement officer  have the meanings given such terms in section 1204 of the Omnibus Crime Control and Safe Streets Act of 1968 ( 34 U.S.C. 10284 ). 
