 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Green Vehicle Adoption Nationwide Act of 2021  or the  Green VAN Act of 2021 . 
 2.  Qualified commercial electric vehicles  (a)  In general  Subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end the following new section:  45U.  Credit for qualified commercial electric vehicles  (a)  In general  For purposes of section 38, the qualified commercial electric vehicle credit for any taxable year is an amount equal to the sum of the credit amounts determined under subsection (b) with respect to each qualified commercial electric vehicle placed in service by the taxpayer during the taxable year.  (b)  Per vehicle amount  The amount determined under this subsection with respect to any qualified commercial electric vehicle shall be equal to 30 percent of the basis of such vehicle.  (c)  Qualified commercial electric vehicle For purposes of this section, the term  qualified commercial electric vehicle  means any vehicle which— (1)  meets the requirements of subparagraphs (A), (B), and (C) of section 36C(c)(1),  (2)  either—  (A)  meets the requirements of subparagraph (D) of section 36C(c)(1), or  (B)  is mobile machinery, as defined in section 4053(8),   (3)  is primarily propelled by an electric motor which draws electricity from a battery which—  (A)  has a capacity of not less than 30 kilowatt hours,   (B)  is capable of being recharged from an external source of electricity, and  (C)  is not powered or charged by an internal combustion engine, and  (4)  is of a character subject to the allowance for depreciation.  (d)  Special rules  (1)  In general  Rules similar to the rules under subsections (d) of section 36C shall apply for purposes of this section.  (2)  Property used by tax-exempt entity  In the case of a vehicle the use of which is described in paragraph (3) or (4) of section 50(b) and which is not subject to a lease, the person who sold such vehicle to the person or entity using such vehicle shall be treated as the taxpayer that placed such vehicle in service, but only if such person clearly discloses to such person or entity in a document the amount of any credit allowable under subsection (a) with respect to such vehicle.  (e)  VIN number requirement  No credit shall be determined under subsection (a) with respect to any vehicle unless the taxpayer includes the vehicle identification number of such vehicle on the return of tax for the taxable year.  (f)  Termination  No credit shall be determined under this section with respect to any vehicle acquired after December 31, 2031. 
 .  (b)  Conforming amendments  (1)  Section 38(b) is amended by striking paragraph (30) and inserting the following:  (30)  the qualified commercial electric vehicle credit determined under section 45U,  .  (2)  Section 6213(g)(2), as amended by the preceding provisions of this Act, is amended—  (A) in subparagraph (S), by striking  and  at the end, (B) in subparagraph (T), by striking the period at the end and inserting  , and , and (C)  by adding at the end the following:  (U)  an omission of a correct vehicle identification number required under section 45U(e) (relating to commercial electric vehicle credit) to be included on a return.  .  (3)  The table of sections for subpart D of part IV of subchapter A of chapter 1 is amended by adding at the end the following new item:  Sec. 45U. Qualified commercial electric vehicle credit.  .  (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to vehicles acquired after December 31, 2021. 
