 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Bringing Back Main Street Act of 2021 .
 2.  Study on small business assistance to foreign-based companies  (a)  Study  The Comptroller General of the United States shall conduct a study to determine the amount of small business assistance that has been received by foreign-based small business concerns during the period beginning on March 1, 2020, and ending on the date of the enactment of this Act.  (b)  Report  (1)  In general  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Comptroller General shall submit to Congress a report on the findings of the study conducted under subsection (a), including the amount of small business assistance that has been received by foreign-based small business concerns in total and dis­ag­gre­gated by country of origin.  (2)  Identifiable or proprietary information  The Comptroller General shall ensure that the report submitted under paragraph (1) does not include any identifiable or proprietary information of any foreign-based small business concern.  (c)  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Country of origin The term  country of origin  means the country, other than the United States— (A)  in which a foreign-based small business concern is headquartered;  (B)  under the laws of which an entity owning or holding, directly or indirectly, not less than 25 percent of the economic interest of a foreign-based small business concern is organized; or  (C)  of which a person owning or holding, directly or indirectly, not less than 25 percent of the economic interest of a foreign-based small business concern is a citizen.  (2)  Foreign-based small business concern The term  foreign-based small business concern  means a small business concern— (A)  that is headquartered in a country other than the United States; or  (B)  for which an entity organized under the laws of a country other than the United States, or a citizen of such a country, owns or holds, directly or indirectly, not less than 25 percent of the economic interest of the small business concern, including as equity shares or a capital or profit interest in a limited liability company or partnership.  (3)  Small business assistance The term  small business assistance  means any Federal funds and other benefits available to small business concerns under programs administered by the Small Business Administration, including— (A)  loans, whether directly or indirectly made;   (B)  grants; and  (C)  contracting preferences.  (4)  Small business concern The term  small business concern  has the meaning given such term under section 3 of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 632 ).
