 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Hazard Eligibility and Local Projects Act .
 2. Authority to begin implementation of acquisition or relocation projects (a)  Eligibility for Assistance for Initiated Projects  (1)  In general  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, an entity seeking assistance under a hazard mitigation assistance program shall be eligible to receive such assistance for a covered project if the entity—  (A)  complies with all other eligibility requirements of the hazard mitigation assistance program for acquisition or relocation projects, including extinguishing all incompatible encumbrances; and  (B)  complies with all Federal requirements for the project.  (2)  Costs incurred  An entity seeking assistance under a hazard mitigation assistance program shall be responsible for any project costs incurred by the entity for a covered project if the covered project is not awarded, or is determined to be ineligible for, assistance.  (b)  Definitions  In this section, the following definitions apply:  (1)  Covered project The term  covered project  means— (A)  an acquisition or relocation project for which an entity began implementation prior to grant award under a hazard mitigation assistance program; and  (B)  a project for which an entity initiated planning or construction before or after requesting assistance for the project under a hazard mitigation assistance program qualifying for a categorical exemption under the National Environmental Policy Act.  (2)  Hazard mitigation assistance program The term  hazard mitigation assistance program  means— (A) the predisaster hazard mitigation grant program authorized under section 203 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5133 ); (B) the hazard mitigation grant program authorized under section 404 of the Robert T. Stafford Disaster Relief and Emergency Assistance Act ( 42 U.S.C. 5170c ); and (C) the flood mitigation assistance program authorized under section 1366 of the National Flood Insurance Act of 1968 ( 42 U.S.C. 4104c ). (c)  Applicability  This section shall apply to funds appropriated on or after the date of enactment of this Act. 
