 1.  Short title; table of contents This Act may be cited as the  Coronavirus Regulatory Repeal Act of 2021 .
 2.  Repeal or Modification of Regulations during the emergency period  Any regulation waived or modified during the emergency period shall be repealed or modified, as applicable, the day after the expiration of the emergency period and thereafter, unless a Federal Regulatory Review Commission recommends the regulation should not be repealed or modified, as applicable, and a law is enacted confirming the recommendation. 
 3.  Federal Regulatory Review Commissions  (a)  Establishment There are established Commissions to be known as the  Federal Regulatory Review Commissions . (b)  Members Each Commission shall be composed of members of the congressional committee of each jurisdiction and the head of each agency under the jurisdiction of that committee (in this Act referred to as the  members ).  (c)  Information  Members may obtain information from individuals with expertise in the operations and regulations of government programs.  (d)  Duties of the Commissions  (1)  Review of Federal regulations  Not later than 2 months after the date of the enactment of this Act, each Commission shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the majority leader of the Senate an official recommendation, on the repeal or modification of each regulation waived or modified during the emergency period. Each regulation waived or modified during the emergency period shall remain waived or modified, as applicable, during the review period by the Commission.  (2)  Extension  The deadline in paragraph (1) may be extended for an additional month if the Congress enacts legislation extending such deadline by a vote of a majority of the House of Representatives and the Senate.  (e)  Report to Congress  (1)  Agency report on regulations  Not later than 1 month after the date of the enactment of this Act, the head of each agency shall submit to each congressional committee of jurisdiction a report that includes—  (A)  an analysis of whether or not the agency can function without the regulation or with the modified regulation, as applicable; and  (B)  an analysis of whether the regulation should be restored to its original state before the emergency period or should remain repealed or modified, as applicable.  (2)  Public comment period required  The head of an agency shall provide a public comment period before submitting a report pursuant to paragraph (1).  (f)  Congressional recommendation  Not later than 1 month after receiving a report from the head of each agency pursuant to subsection (e), each committee shall submit to the Speaker of the House of Representatives and the majority leader of the Senate an official recommendation on whether or not the repealed or modified regulation should be re-established.   (g)  Sunset of Commissions  The Commissions established in this section shall terminate on the final day of the final recommendation by each committee.  
 4.  Definitions  In this Act:  (1)  Agency The term  agency  has the meaning given that term in section 551 of title 5, United States Code.  (2)  Emergency period The term  emergency period  means the duration of a public health emergency declared pursuant to section 319 of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 247d ) as a result of confirmed cases of 2019 novel coronavirus (COVID–19), including any renewal thereof. (3)  Regulation The term  regulation has the meaning given the term  rule  under section 551 of title 5, United States Code.
