 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Vote Without Fear Act .
 2.  Prohibition on unauthorized firearm possession at a Federal election site  (a)  In general  Chapter 44  of title 18, United States Code, is amended by adding at the end the following: 932.  Prohibition on unauthorized firearm possession at a Federal election site  (a)  (1)  Except as provided in paragraph (2), whoever knowingly possesses or causes to be present a firearm in, or within 100 yards of an entrance to, a place that the individual knows, or has reasonable cause to believe, is a Federal election site, or attempts to do so, shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 1 year, or both.  (2)  Paragraph (1) shall not apply to—  (A)  the possession of a firearm by a law enforcement officer employed by the United States, a State, or a political subdivision thereof, or a private security guard hired or arranged for by the owner or manager of a building in which there is a Federal election site, who is authorized by law to possess a firearm and who is on duty;  (B)  the possession of a firearm in a vehicle within 100 yards of an entrance to a Federal election site, if the firearm is not removed from the vehicle or brandished while the vehicle is in, or within 100 yards of the entrance to, a Federal election site; or  (C)  the otherwise lawful possession of a firearm in a place of residence, in a place of business, or on private property, in or within 100 yards of an entrance to a Federal election site.  (b)  Whoever, with intent that a firearm be used in the commission of a crime, knowingly possesses or causes to be present the firearm in, or within 100 yards of an entrance to, a place that the individual knows, or has reasonable cause to believe, is a Federal election site, or attempts to do so, shall be fined under this title, imprisoned not more than 5 years, or both.  (c)  A person who kills any person in the course of a violation of subsection (a) or (b), or in the course of an attack on a Federal election site, involving the use of a firearm, or attempts or conspires to do so, shall be punished as provided in sections 1111, 1112, 1113, and 1117.  (d) In this section, the term  Federal election site  means a building or any part thereof at which an employee of the United States, a State, or a political subdivision thereof is engaged in— (1)  the administration of a polling place in an election for Federal office; or  (2)  the processing or counting of ballots cast in such an election. 
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of sections for such chapter is amended by adding at the end the following new item:  932. Prohibition on unauthorized firearm possession at a Federal election site.  . 
