 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Vision Zero Act of 2021 .
 2.  Vision zero  (a)  In general  A local government, metropolitan planning organization, or regional transportation planning organization may develop and implement a vision zero plan to significantly reduce or eliminate transportation-related fatalities and serious injuries within a specified timeframe, not to exceed 20 years.   (b)  Use of funds  Amounts apportioned to a State under paragraph (2) or (3) of section 104(b) of title 23, United States Code, may be used to carry out a vision zero plan under this section.  (c)  Contents of plan  A vision zero plan under this section shall include—  (1)  a description of programs, strategies, or policies intended to significantly reduce or eliminate transportation-related fatalities and serious injuries within a specified timeframe, not to exceed 20 years, that is consistent with a State strategic highway safety plan and uses existing transportation data and consideration of risk factors;  (2)  plans for the implementation of, and education of the public about, such programs, strategies, and policies;  (3)  a description of how such programs, strategies, or policies will—  (A)  equitably invest in the safety needs of low-income and minority communities; and  (B) protect the rights of members of such communities with respect to title VI of the Civil Rights Act of 1964 ( 42 U.S.C. 2000d et seq. ); and (4)  a description of a mechanism to evaluate progress of the development and implementation of the plan, including the gathering and use of transportation safety and demographic data.  (d)  Inclusions  A vision zero plan may include a complete streets prioritization plan that identifies a specific list of projects to—  (1)  create a connected network of active transportation facilities, including sidewalks, bikeways, or pedestrian and bicycle trails, to connect communities and provide safe, reliable, affordable, and convenient access to employment, housing, and services, consistent with the goals described in section 150(b) of title 23, United States Code;  (2)  integrate active transportation facilities with public transportation service or improve access to public transportation; and  (3)  improve transportation options for low-income and minority communities.  (e)  Coordination  A vision zero plan under this section shall provide for coordination of various subdivisions of a unit of local government in the implementation of the plan.  (f)  Restriction on use of funds  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, no Federal funds may be used to enforce a vision zero plan.   (g)  Safety performance management  A vision zero plan under this section is not sufficient to demonstrate compliance with the safety performance or planning requirements of section 148 or 150 of title 23, United States Code.  (h)  Amendment to section 148  Section 148 of title 23, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subsection (a)(4)(B)(xiii) by inserting  , including the development of a vision zero plan under the Vision Zero Act of 2021  after  safety planning ;  (2) in subsection (c)(2)(B)(i) by inserting  excessive design speeds and speed limits,  after  crossing needs, ; and (3) in subsection (h)(1)(A) by inserting  , including any efforts to reduce vehicle speed  after  under this section .  (i)  Amendment to section 150 Section 150(b)(1) of title 23, United States Code, is amended by inserting  or elimination  after  significant reduction . 
