 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  No Support for Terror Act .
 2.  Preventing allocations of Special Drawing Rights at the International Monetary Fund for countries that are perpetrators of genocide or state sponsors of terrorism The Bretton Woods Agreements Act ( 22 U.S.C. 286 et seq. ) is amended by adding at the end the following: 74.  Preventing allocations of Special Drawing Rights for countries that are perpetrators of genocide or state sponsors of terrorism  The Secretary of the Treasury shall instruct the United States Executive Director at the Fund to use the voice and vote of the United States to—  (1)  oppose the allocation of Special Drawing Rights to any country that is a perpetrator of genocide or a state sponsor of terrorism, as determined by the Secretary of State; and  (2)  advocate that the Fund adopt a rule prohibiting such an allocation. 
 . 
 3.  Preventing United States tax dollars from being provided to the Taliban or other terrorist organizations or countries that harbor terrorist organizations  (a)  Review  (1)  In general  The Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall jointly conduct a review of assistance provided to nongovernmental organizations and international organizations to ensure such assistance is not being further provided to the Taliban or other terrorist organizations or countries that harbor terrorist organizations in accordance with United States anti-terrorism financing laws.  (2)  Report  Not later than 90 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall jointly submit to Congress a report that contains the results of the review conducted under paragraph (1).  (b)  Recipient requirements  Not later than 180 days after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of the Treasury, the Secretary of State, and the Administrator of the United States Agency for International Development shall each require prime awardees of assistance to provide evidence that all sub-awardees of such assistance are complying with United States anti-terrorism financing laws. 
