 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Disabled Veterans Tax Termination Act .
 2.  Concurrent receipt of both retired pay and veterans’ disability compensation for military retirees with compensable service-connected disabilities  (a)  Inclusion of Retirees With Service-Connected Disabilities Rated Less Than 50 Percent  Section 1414(a) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—  (1) by striking  Compensation  in the subsection heading and all that follows through  Subject  and inserting  Compensation .—Subject; (2) by striking  qualifying service-connected disability  and inserting  service-connected disability ; and (3)  by striking paragraph (2).  (b)  Inclusion of disability retirees with less than 20 years of service  Section 1414(b) of title 10, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in paragraph (1), by striking  member retired  and inserting  qualified retiree who is retired ; and (2)  by striking paragraph (2) and inserting the following new paragraph:  (2)  Disability retirees with less than 20 years of service  The retired pay of a qualified retiree who is retired under chapter 61 of this title with fewer than 20 years of creditable service is subject to reduction under sections 5304 and 5305 of title 38, but only by the amount (if any) by which the amount of the member’s retired pay under such chapter exceeds the amount equal to 2½ percent of the member’s years of creditable service multiplied by the member’s retired pay base under section 1406(b)(1) or 1407 of this title, whichever is applicable to the member.  .  (c)  Conforming amendments reflecting end of Concurrent Receipt phase-In period  Section 1414 of title 10, United States Code, is further amended—  (1)  in subsection (a), as amended by subsection (a) of this section, by striking the final sentence;  (2)  by striking subsection (c) and redesignating subsections (d) and (e) as subsections (c) and (d), respectively; and  (3)  in subsection (d), as so redesignated, by striking paragraphs (3) and (4).  (d)  Clerical Amendments  (1)  Section heading  The heading for section 1414 of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows:  1414.  Members eligible for retired pay who are also eligible for veterans’ disability compensation: concurrent payment of retired pay and disability compensation 
 .  (2)  Table of sections The item relating to such section in the table of sections at the beginning of  chapter 71  of title 10, United States Code, is amended to read as follows: 1414. Members eligible for retired pay who are also eligible for veterans’ disability compensation: concurrent payment of retired pay and disability compensation.  .  (e)  Conforming amendment reflecting subsection redesignation Section 1413a(f) of title 10, United States Code, is amended by striking  Subsection (d)  and inserting  Subsection (c) . (f)  Effective Date  The amendments made by this section shall take effect on the first day of the first month beginning after the date of the enactment of this Act and shall apply to payments for months beginning on or after that date. 
