 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  It’s About Time Act .
 2.  Change of fiscal year  (a)  In general  (1)  Change of calendar period  Section 1102 of title 31, United States Code, is amended—  (A) by striking  October 1  and inserting  January 1 ; and (B) by striking  September 30 of the following year  and inserting  December 31 of that year .  (2)  Effective date  The amendments made by paragraph (1) shall be effective on January 1, 2023.  (b)  Transition to new fiscal year  (1)  Transition period budget  As soon as practicable, the President shall prepare and submit to Congress—  (A)  after consultation with the Committees on the Budget and the Committees on Appropriations of the House of Representatives and the Senate, budget estimates for the Federal government for the period commencing October 1, 2022, and ending on December 31, 2022, in such form and detail as the President may determine; and  (B)  proposed legislation the President considers appropriate with respect to changes in law necessary to provide authorizations of appropriations for that period.  (2)  Agency transition  The Director of the Office of Management and Budget shall provide by regulation, order, or otherwise for the orderly transition by all departments, agencies, and instrumentalities of the Federal government and the government of the District of Columbia from the use of the fiscal year in effect on the date of the enactment of this Act to the use of the new fiscal year prescribed in subsection (a). The Director shall prepare and submit to Congress such additional proposed legislation as the Director considers necessary to accomplish this objective.  (c)  Conversion of authorizations of appropriations  Any law providing for an authorization of appropriations commencing on October 1 of a year shall, if that year is any year after 2021, be considered as meaning January 1 of the following year. Any law providing for an authorization of appropriations ending on September 30 of a year shall, if that year is any year after 2022, be considered as meaning December 31 of that year. Any law providing for an authorization of appropriations for the fiscal year 2023 or any fiscal year thereafter shall be construed as referring to that fiscal year ending on December 31 of the calendar year having the same calendar year number as the fiscal year number.  (d)  Title of appropriation Acts  (1)  In general Section 105 of title 1, United States Code, is amended by striking  September 30  and inserting  December 31 . (2)  Effective date  The amendment made by paragraph (1) shall be effective for any fiscal year commencing on or after January 1, 2023.  
