
 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Protecting Miranda Rights for Kids Act .
  2.  Waiver of Miranda rights by a minor   (a)  In general  Chapter 223  of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 3051  the following:

 3501A.  Custodial interrogation of a minor 
 (a)  Notification  Any law enforcement officer who has arrested a minor for a violation of law shall notify the minor's parent, guardian, or legal custodian that the minor has been arrested and shall provide the location of where the minor is being detained.   (b)  Waiver  A minor who is subject to a custodial interrogation may only waive the privilege against self-incrimination or the right to assistance of legal counsel if the minor consults with legal counsel in person before such waiver. 
 (c)  Exception  Subsection (a) shall not apply if—   (1)  custodial interrogation of a minor is necessary to gather information to protect life from an imminent threat; and 
 (2)  the questions that were asked during the custodial interrogation were reasonably necessary to obtain such information.   (d)  Assigned counsel   (1)  In general  A minor who is subject to a custodial interrogation shall have the right to have the legal counsel assigned to the minor’s case physically present during such interrogation. 
 (2)  Violation  In the case of custodial interrogation of a minor, it shall be a violation of this subsection for the minor to be represented by any substitute counsel temporarily assigned to represent the minor.   (e)  Inadmissible  In any criminal prosecution brought by the United States, any statement given by a minor during a custodial interrogation that does not comply with this section, and any evidence derived from that statement, shall be inadmissible. 
 (f)  Minor defined In this section, the term  minor  means an individual who has not attained 18 years of age.
 .   (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections for  chapter 223  of title 18, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to  section 3501  the following item:


 3501A. Custodial interrogation of a minor.  . 

