 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Reinvesting in Essential Partnerships And Infrastructure for Rural America Act  or the  REPAIR Act . 
 2.  Fixed guideway capital investment grants  Section 5309 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—  (1)  in subsection (a)—  (A)  in paragraph (7)—  (i) in subparagraph (A) by striking  $100,000,000  and inserting  $200,000,000 ; and (ii) in subparagraph (B) by striking  $300,000,000  and inserting  $400,000,000 ; and  (B)  by adding at the end the following:  (8)  Rural start project The term  rural start project  means a new transit capital project that is not in an urbanized area for which— (A)  the Federal assistance provided or to be provided under this section is less than $80,000,000; and  (B)  the total estimated net capital cost is less than $150,000,000.  ;  (2) in subsection (b)(1) by striking  or small start projects  and inserting  , small start projects, or rural start projects ;  (3) in subsection (c)(1) by striking  small start projects  and inserting  , small start projects, rural start projects ; and  (4)  in subsection (h)—  (A) in the heading by striking  Small start projects  and inserting  Small start projects and rural start projects ; (B) in paragraph (1) by striking  small start project  and inserting  small start project or rural start project ; (C) in paragraph (2)(A) by striking  small starts project  and inserting  small start project or rural start project ; (D) in paragraph (3) by striking  small start project  and inserting  small start project or rural start project ; and  (E) in paragraph (6)(A) by striking  small start project  and inserting  small start project or rural start project . 
 3.  Enhanced mobility of seniors and individuals with disabilities  Section 5310 of title 49, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subsection (b)(2) by striking (A)  Amount available  and all that follows through  A recipient of a grant under  and inserting  A recipient of a grant under ; (2)  in subsection (c)(2) by adding at the end the following:  (E)  Reallocation  Amounts apportioned under section 5310(c)(1)(A) may be reallocated to projects in areas other than urbanized areas.  ;  (3)  by striking paragraphs (1) and (2) of subsection (d) and inserting the following:  (1)  Capital projects  (A)  In general  Except as provided in subparagraph (B), a grant awarded under this section for a capital project shall be 80 percent of the net costs of the project, as determined by the Secretary.  (B)  Exception  A State described in section 120(b) of title 23 shall receive a Government share of the net costs in accordance with the formula under such section.  (2)  Operating Assistance  (A)  In general  Except as provided by subparagraph (B), a grant awarded under this section for a operating assistance may not exceed an amount equal to 50 percent of the net operating costs of the project, as determined by the Secretary.  (B)  Exception  A State described in section 120(b) of title 23 shall receive a Government share of the net costs that is equal to 62.5 percent of the Government share provided for under paragraph (1)(B).  ; and  (4)  by striking subsection (e)(1) and inserting the following:  (1)  In general  To the extent the Secretary determines appropriate, the requirements of—  (A)  section 5307 shall apply to recipients of grants made in urbanized areas under this subsection; and  (B)  section 5311 shall apply to recipients of grants made in rural areas under this subsection.  . 
 4.  Formula grants for rural areas  Section 5311(g) of title 49, United States Code, is amended—  (1)  in paragraph (1) by adding at the end the following:  (C)  Projects in qualified opportunity zones, medically underserved areas, or areas with a medically underserved population  A grant awarded under this section for a capital project in a qualified opportunity zone, a medically underserved area, or areas with a medically underserved population shall be for 90 percent of the net costs of the project, as determined by the Secretary.   ;  (2)  in paragraph (2) by adding at the end the following:  (C)  Projects in qualified opportunity zones, medically underserved areas, or areas with a medically underserved population  A grant awarded under this section for a capital project in a qualified opportunity zone, a medically underserved area, or an area with a medically underserved population shall be for 62.5 percent of the Government share provided for under paragraph (1)(B).  ; and  (3)  by adding at the end the following:  (6)  Definitions  In this subsection:  (A)  Qualified opportunity zone The term  qualified opportunity zone  has the meaning given such term  section 1400Z–1  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (B)  Medically underserved areas; an area with a medically underserved population The term  medically underserved areas  or  an area with a medically underserved population  means an area or populations that are designated as medically underserved by the Secretary of Health and Human Services pursuant to section 330(b)(3) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 254b(b)(3) ).  . 
 5.  Non-emergency medical transportation  (a)  Research project eligibility  Section 5312(c)(2) of title 49, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subparagraph (M), by striking  or  at the end; (2)  by redesignating subparagraph (N) as subparagraph (O); and   (3)  by inserting after subparagraph (M) the following:  (N)  access to hospitals and healthcare providers in areas underserved by transit or with limited public transportation options, as determined by the Secretary; or  .  (b)  Innovation and development project eligibility  Section 5312(d)(2) of title 49, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subparagraph (G), by striking  or  at the end; (2)  by redesignating subparagraph (H) as subparagraph (I); and  (3)  by inserting after subparagraph (G) the following:  (H)  public transportation projects that improve health care access and outcomes; or  .  (c)  Demonstration, deployment, and evaluation project eligibility  Section 5312(e)(3) of title 49, United States Code, is amended—  (1) in subparagraph (B), by striking  or  at the end; (2) in subparagraph (C), by striking the period and inserting  ; or ; and  (3)  by adding at the end the following:  (D)  the deployment of public transportation projects or practices that—  (i) achieve measurable improvements in transportation access to health care for medically underserved areas or populations, as designated by the Health Resources and Services Administration pursuant to section 330(b)(3) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 254b(b)(3) );  (ii) implement transportation strategies for addressing significant health needs as identified by a community health needs assessment pursuant to the requirements of  section 501(r)(3)(A)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986; or (iii)  eliminate or reduce transportation barriers to accessing health care that are identified and prioritized in the coordinated public transit-human services transportation plan described in section 5310(e)(2)(A).   . 
 6.  Innovative mobility and technology deployment grants  (a)  In general  Chapter 53  of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 5312  the following: 5313.  Innovative mobility and technology deployment grants  (a)  Authority  The Secretary shall establish an innovative mobility and technology deployment grants program to award grants to entities described in subsection (b) to assist in financing of public transportation projects that—  (1)  allow for the integration of mobility services or technologies in public transportation services, including traveler information, trip planning information, new or expanded reservation capabilities, integrated payment solutions, fare automation, or delivery designs to improve options in public transportation;  (2)  advance first-mile, last-mile, late night, or low density services that connect riders to public transportation, including—  (A)  microtransit;  (B)  commuter busing; or  (C)  commuter highway vehicles;  (3)  advance on demand complementary paratransit services;  (4)  provide accessibility and connectivity for rural areas not being adequately served by public transportation, as determined by the Secretary;   (5)  expand high-performing public transportation business models that increase access to public transportation; or  (6)  provide any other transit service that the Secretary determines appropriate to meet the purposes of this section.   (b)  Eligible entities  To be eligible for a grant under this section, an entity shall be—  (1)  a State or local government; or  (2)  a publicly owned operator of public transportation.  (c)  Application  To be eligible to receive a grant under this section, an entity described in subsection (b) shall submit to the Secretary an application in such form and contain such information as the Secretary may require.  (d)  Rulemaking  The Secretary shall—  (1)  issue such regulations as are necessary to carry out this section, and publish such regulations in the Federal Register, not later than 270 days after the date of enactment of this section; and  (2)  in issuing such regulations, solicit and receive comments from stakeholders not later than 180 days after the date of enactment of this section.  (e)  Grant requirements  The Secretary may approve modified grant requirements for projects carried out using a grant under this section.  (f)  Limitations  (1)  Period of grant  A grant under this section shall be for a 3-year period beginning on the date on which the first payment of any amount under the grant is provided to an eligible entity.  (2)  Rural grant minimum  The Secretary shall award not less than 20 percent of the total amounts made available to carry out this section to support activities described under subsection (a) in rural areas.  (3)  Government share of costs  The Federal share of the total project cost of a project carried out under this section may not exceed 80 percent.  (4)  Allocation  Of the amounts authorized to be appropriated to carry out this section for each fiscal year, not more than 20 percent may be awarded under subsection (a) to a single entity.   (g)  Best practices  The Secretary shall annually collect from, review, and disseminate to public transportation agencies findings or best practices from projects funded under this section.  (h)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Commuter highway vehicle The term  commuter highway vehicle  has the meaning given such term in  section 132(f)(5)(B)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986. (2)  High-performing public transportation The term  high-performing public transportation  means a public transportation service, whether provided by a public agency, private nonprofit, or for-profit organization, that is able to collect all operating costs through fare-box revenue or other dedicated sources for an activity and increases access to public transportation. (3)  Micro-transit The term  micro-transit  means internet-enabled, public transportation services that use dynamically generated routes calculated by algorithms developed to increase the occupancy of vehicles.
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The analysis for  chapter 53  of title 49, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 5312  the following:  5313. Innovative mobility and technology deployment grants.   . 
