 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Low-Revenue Recipient Paycheck Protection Program Relief Act of 2021 .
 2.  Low-revenue recipient loan forgiveness  (a)  In general Section 7A of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 636m ) is amended— (1)  in subsection (i)—  (A) in paragraph (1), by inserting  or (m)(2)  after  subsection (b) ; and (B) in paragraph (3)(B), by inserting  or (m)(2)  after  subsection (b) ; and (2)  by adding at the end the following:  (m)  Low-Revenue recipients loan forgiveness  (1)  In general With respect to a covered loan received by a low-revenue recipient not later than December 1, 2020, and for which such low-revenue recipient has received no loan forgiveness under this section, at the election of such low-revenue recipient, the term  covered period  shall, for the purposes of this section, mean the period— (A)  beginning on the earlier of—  (i)  the date selected by the low-revenue recipient; or  (ii)  September 1, 2021; and  (B)  ending on a date selected by the eligible recipient of the covered loan that occurs during the period—  (i)  beginning on the date that is 8 weeks after the start date of the covered period specified in subparagraph (A); and  (ii)  ending on the date that is 24 weeks after the start date of the covered period specified in such subparagraph.  (2)  Additional loan forgiveness  (A)  In general  A low-revenue recipient that received loan forgiveness under this section for a covered loan received not later than December 1, 2020, shall be eligible for additional forgiveness of indebtedness on such covered loan in accordance with this paragraph.  (B)  Additional forgiveness calculation  The amount of forgiveness of indebtedness on a covered loan for which a low-revenue recipient is eligible under this paragraph is the amount equal to the difference between—  (i)  the amount of forgiveness of indebtedness on such covered loan that such low-revenue recipient would be eligible for under this section, as in effect on the date on which such low-revenue recipient applies for loan forgiveness under this paragraph, if—  (I)  such low-revenue recipient had not received any loan forgiveness for such covered loan under this section;  (II) for the purposes of this section, the term  covered period  meant the period described in paragraph (1); and (III) for the purposes of paragraphs (5) and (7) of subsection (d), such covered loan was made on or after the date of the enactment of the Economic Aid to Hard-Hit Small Businesses, Nonprofits, and Venues Act ( Public Law 116–260 ; 134 Stat. 1993); and (ii)  the amount of loan forgiveness for such covered loan that such low-revenue recipient received under this section.  (C)  Excess payment refund  If the Administrator, pursuant to loan forgiveness under this paragraph and in accordance with subsection (c)(3), makes a remittance to a lender in an amount exceeding the total outstanding balance of the applicable covered loan, including any accrued interest, the lender shall pay to the low-revenue recipient an amount equal to such excess.  (D)  Additional forgiveness limit  No low-revenue recipient may receive loan forgiveness under this paragraph more than once.  (3)  Low-revenue recipient defined In this subsection, the term  low-revenue recipient  means an eligible recipient that received a covered loan not later than December 1, 2020, and— (A)  was not in operation during the period beginning on April 1, 2020, and ending on December 31, 2020; or  (B)  during such period, had gross receipts of not more than 20 percent of the gross receipts of such eligible recipient during the corresponding period in 2019.  .  (b)  Regulations Not later than two weeks after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Administrator of the Small Business Administration shall issue regulations carrying out subsection (m) of section 7A of the Small Business Act ( 15 U.S.C. 636m ), as added by subsection (a) of this Act.
