 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Congressional Subpoena Compliance and Enforcement Act .
 2.  Findings  The Congress finds as follows:  (1) As the Supreme Court has repeatedly affirmed, including in its July 9, 2020, holding in Trump v. Mazars, Congress’s  power of inquiry—with process to enforce it—is an essential and appropriate auxiliary to the legislative function . Congress’s power to obtain information, including through the issuance of subpoenas and the enforcement of such subpoenas, is  broad and indispensable . (2) Congress  suffers a concrete and particularized injury when denied the opportunity to obtain information necessary  to the exercise of its constitutional functions, as the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit correctly recognized in its August 7, 2020, en banc decision in Committee on the Judiciary of the U.S. House of Representatives v. McGahn.  (3)  Accordingly, the Constitution secures to each House of Congress an inherent right to enforce its subpoenas in court. Explicit statutory authorization is not required to secure such a right of action, and the contrary holding by a divided panel of the U.S. Court of Appeals for the District of Columbia Circuit in McGahn, entered on August 31, 2020, was in error. 
 3.  Enforcement of congressional subpoenas  (a)  In general  Chapter 85  of title 28, United States Code, is amended by inserting after  section 1365  the following: 1365a.  Congressional actions against subpoena recipients  (a)  Cause of action  The United States House of Representatives, the United States Senate, or a committee or subcommittee thereof, may bring a civil action against the recipient of a subpoena issued by a congressional committee or subcommittee to enforce compliance with the subpoena.  (b)  Special rules  In any civil action described in subsection (a), the following rules shall apply:  (1)  The action may be filed in a United States district court of competent jurisdiction.  (2)  Notwithstanding section 1657(a), it shall be the duty of every court of the United States to expedite to the greatest possible extent the disposition of any such action and appeal. Upon a showing by the plaintiff of undue delay, other irreparable harm, or good cause, a court to which an appeal of the action may be taken shall issue any necessary and appropriate writs and orders to ensure compliance with this paragraph.  (3)  If a three-judge court is expressly requested by the plaintiff in the initial pleading, the action shall be heard by a three-judge court convened pursuant to section 2284, and shall be reviewable only by appeal directly to the Supreme Court of the United States. Such appeal shall be taken by the filing of a notice of appeal within 10 days, and the filing of a jurisdictional statement within 30 days, of the entry of the final decision.  (4)  The initial pleading must be accompanied by certification that the party bringing the action has in good faith conferred or attempted to confer with the recipient of the subpoena to secure compliance with the subpoena without court action.  (c)  Penalties  (1)  Cases involving government agencies  (A)  In general  The court may impose monetary penalties directly against each head of a Government agency and the head of each component thereof held to have knowingly failed to comply with any part of a congressional subpoena, unless—  (i)  the President instructed the official not to comply; and  (ii)  the President, or the head of the agency or component thereof, submits to the court a letter confirming such instruction and the basis for such instruction.   (B)  Prohibition on use of government funds  No appropriated funds, funds provided from any accounts in the Treasury, funds derived from the collection of fees, or other Government funds shall be used to pay any monetary penalty imposed by the court pursuant to this paragraph.  (2)  Legal fees  In addition to any other penalties or sanctions, the court shall require that any defendant, other than a Government agency, held to have willfully failed to comply with any part of a congressional subpoena, pay a penalty in an amount equal to that party’s legal fees, including attorney’s fees, litigation expenses, and other costs. If such defendant is an officer or employee of a Government agency, such fees may be paid from funds appropriated to pay the salary of the defendant.  (d)  Waiver  Any ground for noncompliance asserted by the recipient of a congressional subpoena shall be deemed to have been waived as to any particular information withheld from production if the court finds that the recipient failed in a timely manner to comply with the applicable requirements of section 105(b) of the Revised Statutes of the United States with respect to such information.  (e)  Rules of procedure  The Supreme Court and the Judicial Conference of the United States shall prescribe rules of procedure to ensure the expeditious treatment of actions described in subsection (a). Such rules shall be prescribed and submitted to the Congress pursuant to sections 2072, 2073, and 2074. This shall include procedures for expeditiously considering any assertion of constitutional or Federal statutory privilege made in connection with testimony by any recipient of a subpoena from a congressional committee or subcommittee. The Supreme Court shall transmit such rules to Congress within 6 months after the effective date of this section and then pursuant to section 2074 thereafter.  (f)  Definition For purposes of this section, the term  Government agency  means any office or entity described in sections 105 and 106 of title 3, an executive department listed in section 101 of title 5, an independent establishment, commission, board, bureau, division, or office in the executive branch, or other agency or instrumentality of the Federal Government, including wholly or partly owned Government corporations.
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment The table of sections for  chapter 85  of title 28, United States Code, is amended by inserting after the item relating to  section 1365  the following: 1365a. Congressional actions against subpoena recipients.  . 
 4.  Compliance with congressional subpoenas  (a)  In general Chapter 7 of title II of the Revised Statutes of the United States ( 2 U.S.C. 191 et seq. ) is amended— (1)  by adding at the end the following:  105.  Response to congressional subpoenas  (a)  Subpoena by congressional committee  Any recipient of any subpoena from a congressional committee or subcommittee shall appear and testify, produce, or otherwise disclose information in a manner consistent with the subpoena and this section.  (b)  Failure To produce information  (1)  Grounds for withholding information  Unless required by the Constitution or by Federal statute, no claim of privilege or protection from disclosure shall be a ground for withholding information responsive to the subpoena or required by this section.  (2)  Identification of information withheld  In the case of information that is withheld, in whole or in part, by the subpoena recipient, the subpoena recipient shall, without delay provide a log containing the following:  (A)  An express assertion and description of the ground asserted for withholding the information.  (B)  The type of information.  (C)  The general subject matter.  (D)  The date, author, and addressee.  (E)  The relationship of the author and addressee to each other.  (F)  The custodian of the information.  (G)  Any other descriptive information that may be produced or disclosed regarding the information that will enable the congressional committee or subcommittee issuing the subpoena to assess the ground asserted for withholding the information.  (c)  Definition For purposes of this section the term  information  includes any books, papers, documents, data, or other objects requested in a subpoena issued by a congressional committee or subcommittee.
 .  (b)  Clerical amendment  The table of contents for chapter 7 of title II of the Revised Statutes of the United States is amended by adding at the end the following:  105. Response to congressional subpoenas.  . 
 5.  Rule of construction  Nothing in this Act may be interpreted to limit or constrain Congress’ inherent authority or foreclose any other means for enforcing compliance with congressional subpoenas, nor may anything in this Act be interpreted to establish or recognize any ground for noncompliance with a congressional subpoena. 
