 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Storage Technology for Operational Readiness And Generating Energy Act  or the  S.T.O.R.A.G.E. Act .
 2.  Consideration of energy storage systems  (a)  In general Section 111(d) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ( 16 U.S.C. 2621(d) ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (20)  Consideration of energy storage systems  Each State shall consider requiring that, as part of a supply side resource planning process, an electric utility of the State demonstrate to the State that the electric utility considered an investment in energy storage systems based on appropriate factors, including—  (A)  total costs and normalized life cycle costs;  (B)  cost effectiveness;  (C)  improved reliability;  (D)  security; and  (E)  system performance and efficiency.  .  (b)  Time limitations Section 112(b) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ( 16 U.S.C. 2622(b) ) is amended by adding at the end the following: (7)  (A)  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this paragraph, each State regulatory authority (with respect to each electric utility for which the State regulatory authority has ratemaking authority) and each nonregulated electric utility shall commence the consideration referred to in section 111, or set a hearing date for consideration, with respect to the standard established by paragraph (20) of section 111(d).  (B)  Not later than 2 years after the date of enactment of this paragraph, each State regulatory authority (with respect to each electric utility for which the State regulatory authority has ratemaking authority), and each nonregulated electric utility, shall complete the consideration, and shall make the determination, referred to in section 111 with respect to the standard established by paragraph (20) of section 111(d).  .  (c)  Failure To comply Section 112(c) of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ( 16 U.S.C. 2622(c) ) is amended— (1) by striking  subsection (b)(2)  and inserting  subsection (b) ; and (2) by adding at the end the following:  In the case of the standard established by paragraph (20) of section 111(d), the reference contained in this subsection to the date of enactment of this Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of enactment of that paragraph. . (d)  Prior State actions Section 112 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ( 16 U.S.C. 2622 ) is amended by adding at the end the following:  (g)  Prior State actions  Subsections (b) and (c) of this section shall not apply to the standard established by paragraph (20) of section 111(d) in the case of any electric utility in a State if, before the enactment of this subsection—  (1)  the State has implemented for such utility the standard concerned (or a comparable standard);  (2)  the State regulatory authority for such State or relevant nonregulated electric utility has conducted a proceeding to consider implementation of the standard concerned (or a comparable standard) for such utility; or  (3)  the State legislature has voted on the implementation of such standard (or a comparable standard) for such utility.  .  (e)  Prior and pending proceedings Section 124 of the Public Utility Regulatory Policies Act of 1978 ( 16 U.S.C. 2634 ) is amended by adding at the end the following:  In the case of the standard established by paragraph (20) of section 111(d), the reference contained in this section to the date of the enactment of this Act shall be deemed to be a reference to the date of enactment of such paragraph (20). .
 3.  Coordination of programs  To the maximum extent practicable, the Secretary of Energy shall ensure that the funding and administration of the different offices within the Grid Modernization Initiative of the Department of Energy and other programs conducting energy storage research are coordinated and streamlined. 
