 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Emergency SNAP Staffing Flexibility Act of 2021 .
 2.  Temporary emergency SNAP staffing flexibility  (a)  In general  Notwithstanding section 11(e)(6)(B) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008, a State agency (as defined in section 3 of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008) may, by contract with the State agency at a reasonable cost in accordance with the State agency’s standard contracting rules, hire a contractor to undertake supplemental nutrition assistance program certification or carry out any other function of the State agency under such program.  (b)  Use  A State agency may use the authority provided in subsection (a) when the State experiences increases in supplemental nutrition assistance program applications or an inability to timely process such applications from causes that include—  (1)  pandemics and other health emergencies,  (2)  seasonal workforce cycles,  (3)  temporary staffing shortages, and  (4)  weather or other natural disasters.  (c)  Requirements  A State agency that hires a contractor under subsection (a) shall ensure such action—  (1)  is consistent with all principles under section 900.603 of title 5 of the Code of Federal Regulations; and  (2)  does not supplant existing merit-based personnel in the State.  (d)  Notification  A State agency shall notify the Secretary of Agriculture of the intent to use the authority provided in this section.  (e)  Duration  To the maximum extent practicable, any new contract entered into, or any contract modified, under subsection (a) shall terminate not later than the date on which the cause for the increase in supplemental nutrition assistance program applications or an inability to timely process such applications subsides.  (f)  Program design  Any action taken by a State agency under subsection (a) shall not be—  (1) considered to be a major change in the operations of such State agency for the purposes of section 11(a)(4) of the Food and Nutrition Act of 2008 ( 7 U.S.C. 2020(a)(4) ), or (2)  subject to any requirement specified in such section. 
