 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Tax-Free Pell Grant Act .
 2.  Expansion of pell grant exclusion from gross income  (a)  In general Paragraph  section 117(b)(1)  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by striking  received by an individual  and all that follows and inserting received by an individual—  (A)  as a scholarship or fellowship grant to the extent the individual establishes that, in accordance with the conditions of the grant, such amount was used for qualified tuition and related expenses, or  (B) as a Federal Pell Grant under section 401 of the Higher Education Act of 1965 (as in effect on the date of the enactment of the  Tax-Free Pell Grant Act ). .  (b)  Effective date  The amendment made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020. 
 3.  Expansion of American Opportunity and Lifetime Learning credits  (a)  In general  Section 25A  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended— (1)  in subsection (f)(1)—  (A) in subparagraph (A), by striking  tuition and fees  inserting  tuition, fees, computer or peripheral equipment, child and dependent care expenses, and course materials , (B)  by striking subparagraph (D), and   (C)  by adding at the end the following new subparagraphs:   (D)  Child and dependent care expenses  For purposes of this paragraph—  (i)  In general The term  child and dependent care expenses  means amounts paid for the following expenses, but only if such expenses are incurred to enable the taxpayer to be enrolled in an eligible educational institution for any period for which there are 1 or more qualifying individuals with respect to the taxpayer: (I)  expenses for household services, and  (II)  expenses for the care of a qualifying individual.  Such term shall not include any amount paid for services outside the taxpayer’s household at a camp where the qualifying individual stays overnight.   (ii)  Qualifying individual The term  qualifying individual  has the meaning given such term in section 21(b)(1). (iii)  Exception, dependent care centers Rules similar to the rules of subparagraphs (B), (C), and (D) of section 21(b)(2) shall apply, except the term  child and dependent care expenses  shall be substituted for the term  employment-related expenses  each place it appears in such subparagraphs.  (E)  Child and dependent care expenses only qualified expenses when claimed by eligible student  Amounts paid for an expense described in subparagraph (E) may not be taken into account under this paragraph for a taxable year unless required for the enrollment or attendance of an individual described in subparagraph (A)(i) or subparagraph (A)(ii).  (F)  Computer or peripheral equipment  (i)  Defined For purposes of this paragraph, the term  computer or peripheral equipment  means expenses for the purchase of computer or peripheral equipment (as defined in section 168(i)(2)(B), computer software (as defined in section 197(e)(3)(B)), or Internet access and related services, if such equipment, software, or services are to be used primarily by the individual during any of the years the individual is enrolled at an eligible educational institution. (ii)  Dollar limit on amount creditable  The aggregate of the amounts paid or expenses incurred for computer or peripheral equipment which may be taken into account under this paragraph for a taxable year by the taxpayer shall not exceed $1,000.  , and   (2)  in subsection (g)(5)—  (A) in the heading, by adding  or credit  at the end, and (B) by inserting  or credit  after  a deduction .  (b)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years beginning after December 31, 2020.  
