 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Taxpayer Conscience Protection Act of 2021 .
 2.  Required reporting of medicaid payments to abortion providers  (a)  In general  Not later than 60 days after the end of the first fiscal year ending after the date of the enactment of this Act and each fiscal year thereafter, each State that makes a Medicaid payment from Federal funds during the fiscal year for any items or services furnished by an abortion provider shall—  (1)  submit to the Secretary a report on all such payments; and  (2)  publish the report on a public internet website of the State.  (b)  Report described  The report under subsection (a) shall, with respect to a State that makes a Medicaid payment from Federal funds during the fiscal year for any items or services furnished by an abortion provider, include the following:  (1)  With respect to each such payment, each of the following:  (A)  A specification of the amount of the payment.  (B)  A specification of the purposes for which the payment was made.  (C)  A comparison of the amount of the payment with the amount of any such payment to the provider involved in any prior fiscal year.  (2)  A specification of the number of abortions performed during the fiscal year by the provider involved and the gestational age with respect to each such abortion.  (c)  Report to congress  Not later than 90 days after the end of each fiscal year described in subsection (a), the Secretary shall submit to the Committee on Energy and Commerce of the House of Representatives and to the Committee on Finance of the Senate, and publish on a public internet website of the Department of Health and Human Services, a report that—  (1)  contains the reports submitted pursuant to subsection (a) for the fiscal year; and  (2)  includes a summary of the reports.  (d)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Abortion provider The term  abortion provider  means an entity that— (A)  performs (or refers an individual for) an abortion; or  (B)  controls, is controlled by, or is under common control with, an entity described in subparagraph (A).  (2)  Medicaid payment from Federal funds The term  Medicaid payment from Federal funds  means a payment for which there is Federal financial participation under title XIX of the Social Security Act. (3)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Health and Human Services. (4)  State The term  State  has the meaning given the term for purposes of title XIX of the Social Security Act. (e)  Conforming amendments to Social Security Act Section 1902(a) of the Social Security Act ( 42 U.S.C. 1396a(a) ) is amended— (1) by striking  and  at the end of paragraph (85); (2) by striking the period at the end of paragraph (86) and inserting  ; and ; and (3)  by inserting after paragraph (86) the following:  (87) provide for the submission of reports in accordance with section 2 of the  Taxpayer Conscience Protection Act of 2021 . . 
