 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Metropolitan Planning Enhancement Act .
 2.  Metropolitan transportation planning  (a)  Development of transportation plan  Section 134(i) of title 23, United States Code, is amended—  (1)  by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs (8) and (9); and  (2)  by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:  (7)  Project selection transparency and accountability  Projects included in the adopted transportation plan shall be selected through a publicly available transparent process that includes use of criteria that directly support factors in subsection (h), the national transportation goals under section 150(b), and applicable State transportation goals. The criteria shall be used to publicly categorize the highest performing projects.  .  (b)  Metropolitan tip  Section 134(j)(2)(A) of title 23, United States Code is amended by adding after the period at the end the following:  Projects included in the priority list shall come from the highest performing category of projects identified in the transportation plan under subsection (i)(7). If a lower-categorized project is included in the priority project list, a public description shall be included to explain why the lower-categorized project is included before a higher-categorized project, including geographic balance and projects in economically distressed areas.  . 
 3.  Statewide and nonmetropolitan transportation planning  (a)  Long-Range statewide transportation plan  Section 135(f) of title 23, United States Code, is amended—  (1)  by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (10); and  (2)  by inserting after paragraph (8) the following:  (9)  Project selection transparency and accountability  Projects included in the adopted long-range statewide transportation plan shall be selected through a publicly available transparent process that includes use of criteria that directly support factors in subsection (d), the national transportation goals under section 150(b), and applicable State transportation goals. The criteria shall be used to publicly categorize the highest performing projects.  .  (b)  Statewide transportation improvement plan  Section 135(g)(5)(A) of title 23, United States Code is amended by adding after the period at the end the following:  Projects included in the transportation improvement program shall come from the highest performing category of projects identified in the transportation plan under subsection (f)(9). If a lower-categorized project is included in the priority project list, a public description shall be included to explain why the lower-categorized project is included before a higher-categorized project, including geographic balance and projects in economically distressed areas.  . 
 4.  Metropolitan transportation planning  (a)  Development of transportation plan Section 5303(i) of  chapter 53  of title 49, United States Code, is amended— (1)  by redesignating paragraphs (7) and (8) as paragraphs (8) and (9); and  (2)  by inserting after paragraph (6) the following:  (7)  Project selection transparency and accountability  Projects included in the adopted transportation plan shall be selected through a publicly available transparent process that includes use of criteria that directly support factors in subsection (h), the national transportation goals under section 150(b), and applicable State transportation goals. The criteria shall be used to publicly categorize the highest performing projects.  .  (b)  Metropolitan tip Section 5303(j)(2)(A) of  chapter 53  of title 49, United States Code is amended by adding after the period at the end the following: Projects included in the priority list shall come from the highest performing category of projects identified in the transportation plan under subsection (i)(7). If a lower-categorized project is included in the priority project list, a public description shall be included to explain why the lower-categorized project is included before a higher-categorized project, including geographic balance and projects in economically distressed areas.  . 
 5.  Statewide and nonmetropolitan transportation planning  (a)  Long-Range statewide transportation plan Section 5304(f) of  chapter 53  of title 49, United States Code, is amended— (1)  by redesignating paragraph (9) as paragraph (10); and  (2)  by inserting after paragraph (8) the following:  (9)  Project selection transparency and accountability  Projects included in the adopted long-range statewide transportation plan shall be selected through a publicly available transparent process that includes use of criteria that directly support factors in subsection (d), the national transportation goals under section 150(b), and applicable State transportation goals. The criteria shall be used to publicly categorize the highest performing projects.  .  (b)  Statewide transportation improvement plan Section 5304(g)(5)(A) of  chapter 53  of title 49, United States Code, is amended by adding after the period at the end the following: Projects included in the statewide transportation improvement program shall come from the highest performing category of projects identified in the transportation plan under subsection (f)(9). If a lower-categorized project is included in the priority project list, a public description shall be included to explain why the lower-categorized project is included before a higher-categorized project, including geographic balance and projects in economically distresses areas.  . 
