 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Broadband for All Act of 2021 .
 2.  Refundable credit for cost of broadband infrastructure serving limited broad­band districts  (a)  In general Subpart C of part IV of subchapter A of  chapter 1  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after section 36B the following new section: 36C.  Cost of broadband infrastructure serving limited broadband districts  (a)  In general  In the case of any member of a limited broadband district, there shall be allowed as a credit against the tax imposed by this subtitle for the taxable year an amount equal to 75 percent of the qualified broadband infrastructure payments with respect to such district paid or incurred by such person during such taxable year.  (b)  Annual dollar limitation  The credit allowed under subsection (a) with respect to any taxpayer for any taxable year shall not exceed $10,000.  (c)  Definitions  For purposes of this section—  (1)  Limited broadband district The term  limited broadband district  means any group of two or more persons if— (A)  each such person enters into an agreement with a public or private provider of broadband Internet access service under which—  (i)  such provider agrees to provide qualified broadband service to such person, and  (ii)  such person agrees to pay such provider for such person’s share (determined pursuant to such agreement) of the provider’s investment in infrastructure necessary to provide such service, and  (B)  all of the qualified broadband service provided pursuant to such agreements is provided to locations in an unserved broadband community.  (2)  Qualified broadband infrastructure payments The term  qualified broadband infrastructure payment  means any payment described in paragraph (1)(A)(ii). Such payment may include reasonable interest charges. (3)  Unserved broadband community The term  unserved broadband community  means any community that (as of the time the agreement described in paragraph (1) is entered into)— (A)  is not served by any provider of qualified broadband service (other than providers using satellite technology), and  (B)  obtains a certification from all providers of broadband internet access service that the Federal Communications Commission’s most recent Form 477 data collection shows as serving the census blocks in which such community is located, stating that such providers do not offer qualified broadband service to any location within such community.  (4)  Qualified broadband service The term  qualified broadband service  means broadband Internet access service at download speeds of at least 25 megabits per second and upload speeds of at least 3 megabits per second. (5)  Broadband internet access service The term  broadband Internet access service  has the meaning given such term in section 8.2 of title 47, Code of Federal Regulations.
 .  (b)  Conforming amendments  (1) Section 6211(b)(4)(A) of such Code is amended by inserting  36C,  after  36B, . (2) Section 1324(b)(2) of title 31, United States Code, is amended by inserting  36C,  after  36B, . (3) The table of sections for subpart C of part IV of subchapter A of  chapter 1  of the Internal Revenue Code of 1986 is amended by inserting after the item relating to section 36B the following new item: Sec. 36C. Cost of broadband infrastructure serving limited broadband districts.  (c)  Effective date  The amendments made by this section shall apply to taxable years ending after the date of the enactment of this Act. 
