 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Safe Responsible Ethical Scientific Endeavors Assuring Research for Compassionate Healthcare Act  or the  Safe RESEARCH Act .
 2.  Prohibition on research with human fetal tissue obtained pursuant to an abortion  (a)  In general Section 498A of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 289g–1 ) is amended— (1) in the section heading, by striking  Research on transplantation of fetal tissue  and inserting  Research with fetal tissue ; (2)  by amending subsection (a) to read as follows:  (a)  Establishment of program  (1)  In general  The Secretary may conduct or support research with human fetal tissue, or research on modern, efficient alternatives to human fetal tissue such as organoids, induced pluripotent stem cells, and adult stem cells. The Secretary shall conduct or support any such research in accordance with this section.  (2)  Source of tissue  Human fetal tissue may be used in research carried out under paragraph (1) only if the tissue is obtained pursuant to a stillbirth.  ;  (3)  in subsection (b)(2)—  (A)  by striking subparagraph (A); and  (B)  by redesignating subparagraphs (B) and (C) as subparagraphs (A) and (B), respectively;  (4) in subsection (c)(1)(B), by striking  may have been obtained pursuant to a spontaneous or induced abortion or pursuant to a stillbirth  and inserting  has been obtained pursuant to a stillbirth ; (5)  in subsection (e), by adding at the end the following new paragraph:  (3)  Human fetal tissue obtained for research  In research carried out under subsection (a), human fetal tissue may be used only if such tissue was obtained in accordance with applicable State law regulating anatomical gifts.  ; and  (6)  by amending subsection (g) to read as follows:  (g)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Human fetal tissue The term  human fetal tissue  means tissue or cells obtained from a dead human embryo or fetus after a stillbirth. (2)  Stillbirth The term  stillbirth  means a fetal death that occurs as a result of natural causes during a pregnancy, including an ectopic pregnancy. .  (b)  Technical amendment Paragraph (1) of section 498B(e) of the Public Health Service Act ( 42 U.S.C. 289g–2(e)(1) ) is amended to read as follows: (1) The term  human fetal tissue  means tissue or cells obtained from a dead human embryo or fetus after a spontaneous or induced abortion, or after a stillbirth. .  (c)  Revision of regulations  Not later than one year after the date of the enactment of this Act, the Secretary of Health and Human Services shall revise such regulations as necessary, including section 46.206 of title 45, Code of Federal Regulations, to incorporate the requirements of this section.  (d)  Repeal Section 113 of the National Institutes of Health Revitalization Act of 1993 ( 42 U.S.C. 289g–1  note) is hereby repealed.
