 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Saving America’s Mines Act .
 2.  Protecting the extraction of critical minerals in the United States  (a)  Findings  Congress finds the following:  (1)  It is the policy of the United States Forest Service to foster and encourage mineral development on National Forest System lands in an ecologically sound manner.  (2)  Mineral development is an important land use within the multiple-use mandate of the Bureau of Land Management.  (3)  Development of the minerals of the United States is necessary for batteries, energy production, national security, and health care technology.  (4)  Unilateral mineral withdrawals on Federal lands increases the reliance of the United States on countries with horrific labor and environmental standards, including Russia, China, and the Congo.  (b)  In general  Notwithstanding any other provision of law, the President or Secretary concerned may not declare a moratorium on or reverse any existing lease, permit, or claim, on the mining and extraction of any critical mineral or common varieties of sand, stone, and gravel on National Forest System or Bureau of Land Management land unless specifically authorized by an Act of Congress, or upon the lessee, permittee, or claimant’s failure to comply with any of the provisions of its agreement.  (c)  Definitions  In this section the following definitions apply:  (1)  Critical mineral  (A)  In general The term  critical mineral  means any mineral, element, or substance of material— (i)  that is essential to the economic or national security of the United States;  (ii)  the supply chain of which is vulnerable to disruption, including—  (I)  restrictions associated with foreign political risk;  (II)  abrupt demand growth;  (III)  military conflict;  (IV)  violent unrest;  (V)  anti-competitive or protectionist behavior; and  (VI)  any other risk throughout the supply chain; and  (iii)  that serves an essential function in the manufacturing of a product, the absence of which would have significant consequences for the economic or national security of the United States.  (B)  Exception The term  critical mineral  shall not include— (i)  any fuel; or   (ii)  water, ice, or snow.  (2)  Secretary concerned The term  Secretary concerned  means— (A)  the Secretary of the Interior, with respect to matters concerning lands administered by the Department of the Interior; and  (B)  the Secretary of Agriculture, with respect to matters concerning lands administered by the Department of Agriculture. 
