 1.  Short title This Act may be cited as the  Joint Chiefs Landscape Restoration Partnership Act of 2021 .
 2.  Joint Chiefs Landscape Restoration Partnership program  (a)  Definitions  In this section:  (1)  Chiefs The term  Chiefs  means the Chief of the Forest Service and the Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation Service. (2)  Eligible activity The term  eligible activity  means an activity— (A)  to reduce the risk of wildfire;  (B)  to protect water quality and supply; or  (C)  to improve wildlife habitat for at-risk species.   (3)  Program The term  program  means the Joint Chiefs Landscape Restoration Partnership program established under subsection (b)(1). (4)  Secretary The term  Secretary  means the Secretary of Agriculture. (5)  Wildland-urban interface The term  wildland-urban interface  has the meaning given the term in section 101 of the Healthy Forests Restoration Act of 2003 ( 16 U.S.C. 6511 ). (b)  Establishment  (1)  In general  The Secretary shall establish a Joint Chiefs Landscape Restoration Partnership program to improve the health and resilience of forest landscapes across National Forest System land and State, Tribal, and private land.  (2)  Administration  The Secretary shall administer the program by coordinating eligible activities conducted on National Forest System land and State, Tribal, or private land across a forest landscape to improve the health and resilience of the forest landscape by—  (A) assisting producers and landowners in implementing eligible activities on eligible private or Tribal land using the applicable programs and authorities administered by the Chief of the Natural Resources Conservation Service under title XII of the Food Security Act of 1985 ( 16 U.S.C. 3801 et seq. ), not including the conservation reserve program established under subchapter B of chapter 1 of subtitle D of that title ( 16 U.S.C. 3831 et seq. ); and (B)  conducting eligible activities on National Forest System land or assisting landowners in implementing eligible activities on State, Tribal, or private land using the applicable programs and authorities administered by the Chief of the Forest Service.  (c)  Selection of eligible activities  The appropriate Regional Forester and State Conservationist shall jointly submit to the Chiefs on an annual basis proposals for eligible activities under the program.  (d)  Evaluation criteria  In evaluating and selecting proposals submitted under subsection (c), the Chiefs shall consider—  (1)  criteria including whether the proposal—  (A)  reduces wildfire risk in a municipal watershed or the wildland-urban interface;  (B)  was developed through a collaborative process with participation from diverse stakeholders;  (C)  increases forest workforce capacity or forest business infrastructure and development;  (D)  leverages existing authorities and non-Federal funding;  (E)  provides measurable outcomes; or  (F)  supports established State and regional priorities; and  (2)  such other criteria relating to the merits of the proposals as the Chiefs determine to be appropriate.  (e)  Outreach  The Secretary shall provide—  (1)  public notice on the websites of the Forest Service and the Natural Resources Conservation Service describing—  (A)  the solicitation of proposals under subsection (c); and   (B)  the criteria for selecting proposals in accordance with subsection (d); and  (2)  information relating to the program and activities funded under the program to States, Indian Tribes, units of local government, and private landowners.  (f)  Exclusions  An eligible activity may not be carried out under the program—  (1)  in a wilderness area or designated wilderness study area;  (2)  in an inventoried roadless area;  (3)  on any Federal land on which, by Act of Congress or Presidential proclamation, the removal of vegetation is restricted or prohibited; or  (4)  in an area in which the eligible activity would be inconsistent with the applicable land and resource management plan.   (g)  Accountability  (1)  Initial report  Not later than 1 year after the date of enactment of this Act, the Secretary shall submit to Congress a report providing recommendations to Congress relating to the program, including a review of—  (A)  funding mechanisms for the program;  (B)  staff capacity to carry out the program;   (C)  privacy laws applicable to the program;  (D)  data collection under the program;  (E)  monitoring and outcomes under the program; and  (F)  such other matters as the Secretary considers to be appropriate.  (2)  Annual reports  The Chiefs shall annually submit to the Committee on Agriculture, Nutrition, and Forestry and the Committee on Appropriations of the Senate and the Committee on Agriculture and the Committee on Appropriations of the House of Representatives a report describing projects for which funding is provided under the program, including the status and outcomes of those projects.  (h)  Funding  (1)  Authorization of appropriations  In addition to amounts otherwise available to the Secretary to carry out the program, there is authorized to be appropriated to the Secretary to carry out the program $90,000,000 for each of fiscal years 2021 through 2030.  (2)  Duration of availability  Funds made available under paragraph (1) shall remain available until expended.  (3)  Distribution of funds  Of the funds made available under paragraph (1)—  (A)  not less than 40 percent shall be allocated to carry out eligible activities through the Natural Resources Conservation Service;   (B)  not less than 40 percent shall be allocated to carry out eligible activities through the Forest Service; and  (C)  the remaining funds shall be allocated by the Chiefs to the Natural Resources Conservation Service or the Forest Service—  (i)  to carry out eligible activities; or  (ii)  for other purposes, such as technical assistance, project development, or local capacity building. 
